Xaltotun lifted his lion-like head and stared far off into space, as if plumbing the lost centuries.  

“Three thousand years!” he muttered. “Set! Tell me what has chanced in the world.”  

“The barbarians who overthrew Acheron founded new kingdoms,” replied Orastes. “Where the empire once stretched now rise realms called Aquilonia, Nemedia, and Argos, named for the tribes that established them. The older kingdoms of Ophir, Corinthia, and western Koth, which had been subject to the kings of Acheron, regained their independence with the empire’s fall.”  

“And what of the people of Acheron?” demanded Xaltotun. “When I fled into Stygia, Python was in ruins, and all the great, purple-towered cities of Acheron were fouled with blood and trampled beneath the sandals of the barbarians.”  

“In the hills, small groups of folk still boast descent from Acheron,” answered Orastes. “For the rest, the tide of my barbarian ancestors rolled over them and wiped them out. They—my ancestors—had suffered much from the kings of Acheron.”  

A grim and terrible smile curled the Pythonian’s lips.  

“Aye! Many a barbarian, both man and woman, died screaming on the altar beneath this hand. I have seen their heads piled high to form a pyramid in the great square of Python when the kings returned from the west with their spoils and naked captives.”  

“Aye. And when the day of reckoning came, the sword was not spared. So Acheron ceased to be, and purple-towered Python became a memory of forgotten days. But younger kingdoms rose upon the imperial ruins and grew mighty. And now we have brought you back to aid us in ruling these kingdoms, which, though less strange and wondrous than Acheron of old, are yet rich and powerful—well worth fighting for. Look!” Orastes unrolled before the stranger a map drawn cunningly on vellum.  

Xaltotun regarded it, then shook his head, baffled.  

“The very outlines of the land are changed. It is like some familiar thing seen in a dream, fantastically distorted.”  

“Nevertheless,” said Orastes, tracing with his forefinger, “here is Belverus, the capital of Nemedia, where we now are. Here run the boundaries of Nemedia. To the south and southeast lie Ophir and Corinthia, to the east Brythunia, to the west Aquilonia.”  

“It is the map of a world I do not know,” said Xaltotun softly, but Orastes did not miss the lurid fire of hate that flickered in his dark eyes.  

“It is a map you shall help us change,” answered Orastes. “Our first desire is to set Tarascus upon the throne of Nemedia. We wish to accomplish this without strife, and in such a way that no suspicion will rest upon Tarascus. We do not want the land torn by civil war, but to reserve all our strength for the conquest of Aquilonia.  

“Should King Nimed and his sons die naturally—in a plague, for instance—Tarascus would mount the throne as the next heir, peacefully and unopposed.”  

Xaltotun nodded without replying, and Orastes continued.  

“The other task will be more difficult. We cannot set Valerius on the Aquilonian throne without war, and that kingdom is a formidable foe. Its people are a hardy, warlike race, toughened by continual conflict with the Picts, Zingarians, and Cimmerians. For five hundred years Aquilonia and Nemedia have waged intermittent war, and the advantage has always lain with the Aquilonians.  

“Their present king is the most renowned warrior among the western nations. He is an outlander, an adventurer who seized the crown by force during a time of civil strife, strangling King Namedides with his own hands upon the very throne. His name is Conan, and no man can stand before him in battle.  

“Valerius is now the rightful heir to the throne. He was driven into exile by his royal kinsman, Namedides, and has been away from his native realm for years. Yet he is of the blood of the old dynasty, and many of the barons would secretly welcome the overthrow of Conan, who is a nobody—without royal or even noble blood. But the common people are loyal to him, as are the nobles of the outlying provinces. Still, if his forces were overthrown in the battle that must come, and Conan himself slain, I think it would not be difficult to place Valerius on the throne. Indeed, with Conan dead, the only center of government would be gone. He is not part of a dynasty, but merely a lone adventurer.”  

“I wish that I might see this king,” mused Xaltotun, glancing toward a silvery mirror that formed one of the wall panels. The mirror cast no reflection, but Xaltotun’s expression showed that he understood its purpose, and Orastes nodded with the pride of a craftsman whose work is recognized by a master of his art.  

“I will try to show him to you,” he said. Seating himself before the mirror, he gazed hypnotically into its depths, where presently a dim shadow began to take shape.  

It was uncanny, but those watching knew it was no more than the reflected image of Orastes’ thought, embodied in that mirror as a wizard’s thoughts are embodied in a magic crystal. It floated hazily, then leaped into startling clarity—a tall man, broad-shouldered and deep of chest, with a massive, corded neck and heavily muscled limbs. He was clad in silk and velvet, with the royal lions of Aquilonia worked in gold upon his rich jupon, and the crown of Aquilonia gleamed on his square-cut black mane. Yet the great sword at his side seemed more natural to him than the regal accoutrements. His brow was low and broad, his eyes a volcanic blue that smoldered with inner fire. His dark, scarred, almost sinister face was that of a fighting man, and his velvet garments could not conceal the hard, dangerous lines of his frame.  

“That man is no Hyborian!” exclaimed Xaltotun.  

“No; he is a Cimmerian, one of those wild tribesmen who dwell in the gray hills of the north.”  

“I fought his ancestors of old,” muttered Xaltotun. “Not even the kings of Acheron could conquer them.”  

“They still remain a terror to the nations of the south,” answered Orastes. “He is a true son of that savage race, and has proved himself, thus far, unconquerable.”  