Xaltotun did not reply; he sat staring down at the pool of living fire that shimmered in his hand. Outside, the hound howled again, long and shudderingly.  

2 - A BLACK WIND BLOWS  
A Black Wind Blows  

The year of the dragon was born in war, pestilence, and unrest. The black plague stalked through the streets of Belverus, striking down the merchant in his stall, the serf in his kennel, the knight at his banquet board. Against it, the arts of the leeches were helpless. Men said it had been sent from hell as punishment for the sins of pride and lust. It was swift and deadly as the stroke of an adder. The victim’s body turned purple, then black, and within minutes he sank down dying, the stench of his own putrefaction in his nostrils even before death wrenched his soul from his rotting flesh. A hot, roaring wind blew incessantly from the south; the crops withered in the fields, and the cattle sank and died in their tracks.  

Men cried out to Mitra and muttered against the king; for somehow, throughout the kingdom, the word was whispered that the king was secretly addicted to loathsome practices and foul debauches in the seclusion of his darkened palace. And then, in that palace, death stalked grinning on feet about which swirled the monstrous vapors of the plague. In one night the king died with his three sons, and the drums that thundered their dirge drowned the grim, ominous bells that rang from the carts lumbering through the streets, gathering up the rotting dead.  

That night, just before dawn, the hot wind that had blown for weeks ceased to rustle evilly through the silken window curtains. Out of the north rose a great wind that roared among the towers, with cataclysmic thunder, blinding sheets of lightning, and driving rain. But the dawn shone clean, green, and clear; the scorched ground veiled itself in grass, the thirsty crops sprang up anew, and the plague was gone—its miasma swept clean from the land by the mighty wind.  

Men said the gods were satisfied because the evil king and his spawn were slain, and when his young brother Tarascus was crowned in the great coronation hall, the populace cheered until the towers rocked, acclaiming the monarch on whom the gods smiled.  

Such a wave of enthusiasm and rejoicing as swept the land is often the signal for a war of conquest. So no one was surprised when it was announced that King Tarascus had declared void the truce made by the late king with their western neighbors, and was gathering his hosts to invade Aquilonia. His reason was candid; his motives, loudly proclaimed, gilded his actions with something of the glamour of a crusade. He espoused the cause of Valerius, “rightful heir to the throne”; he came, he proclaimed, not as an enemy of Aquilonia but as a friend, to free the people from the tyranny of a usurper and a foreigner.  

If there were cynical smiles in certain quarters, and whispers concerning the king’s good friend Amalric, whose vast personal wealth seemed to be flowing into the rather depleted royal treasury, they were unheeded amid the general fervor and zeal of Tarascus’ popularity. If any shrewd individuals suspected that Amalric was the real ruler of Nemedia behind the scenes, they were careful not to voice such heresy. And the war went forward with enthusiasm.  

The king and his allies moved westward at the head of fifty thousand men—knights in shining armor with pennons streaming above their helmets, pikemen in steel caps and brigandines, crossbowmen in leather jerkins. They crossed the border, took a frontier castle, and burned three mountain villages. Then, in the valley of the Valkia, ten miles west of the boundary line, they met the hosts of Conan, king of Aquilonia—forty-five thousand knights, archers, and men-at-arms, the flower of Aquilonian strength and chivalry. Only the knights of Poitain, under Prospero, had not yet arrived, for they had far to ride up from the southwestern corner of the kingdom. Tarascus had struck without warning. His invasion had come on the heels of his proclamation, without formal declaration of war.  

The two hosts confronted each other across a wide, shallow valley, with rugged cliffs and a stream winding through masses of reeds and willows down the middle of the vale. The camp followers of both armies came down to this stream for water, shouting insults and hurling stones across at one another. The last glints of the sun shone on the golden banner of Nemedia with the scarlet dragon, unfurled in the breeze above the pavilion of King Tarascus on an eminence near the eastern cliffs. But the shadow of the western cliffs fell like a vast purple pall across the tents and the army of Aquilonia, and upon the black banner with its golden lion that floated above King Conan’s pavilion.  

All night the fires flared along the valley, and the wind carried the call of trumpets, the clangor of arms, and the sharp challenges of the sentries pacing their horses along either edge of the willow-grown stream.  

* * * * *  

It was in the darkness before dawn that King Conan stirred on his couch, which was no more than a pile of silks and furs thrown on a dais, and awakened. He started up, crying out sharply and clutching at his sword. Pallantides, his commander, rushing in at the cry, saw his king sitting upright, hand on hilt, perspiration dripping from his strangely pale face.  

“Your Majesty!” exclaimed Pallantides. “Is aught amiss?”  

“What of the camp?” demanded Conan. “Are the guards out?”  

“Five hundred horsemen patrol the stream, your Majesty,” answered the general. “The Nemedians have not offered to move against us in the night. They wait for dawn, even as we.”  

“By Crom,” muttered Conan. “I awoke with a feeling that doom was creeping on me in the night.”  

He stared up at the great golden lamp that shed a soft glow over the velvet hangings and carpets of the great tent. They were alone; not even a slave or page slept on the carpeted floor. But Conan’s eyes blazed as they were wont to blaze in the teeth of great peril, and the sword quivered in his hand. Pallantides watched him uneasily. Conan seemed to be listening.  