“Listen!” hissed the king. “Did you hear it? A furtive step!”  

“Seven knights guard your tent, your Majesty,” said Pallantides. “None could approach it unchallenged.”  

“Not outside,” growled Conan. “It seemed to sound inside the tent.”  

Pallantides cast a swift, startled look around. The velvet hangings merged with the shadows in the corners, but if anyone else had been in the pavilion, the general would have seen him. Again he shook his head.  

“There is no one here, sire. You sleep in the midst of your host.”  

“I have seen death strike a king in the midst of thousands,” muttered Conan. “Something that walks on invisible feet and is not seen—”  

“Perhaps you were dreaming, your Majesty,” said Pallantides, somewhat perturbed.  

“So I was,” grunted Conan. “A devilish dream it was, too. I trod again all the long, weary roads I traveled on my way to the kingship.”  

He fell silent, and Pallantides stared at him without speaking. The king was an enigma to the general, as he was to most of his civilized subjects. Pallantides knew that Conan had walked many strange roads in his wild, eventful life, and had been many things before a twist of Fate set him on the throne of Aquilonia.  

“I saw again the battlefield where I was born,” said Conan, resting his chin moodily on a massive fist. “I saw myself in a pantherskin loincloth, hurling my spear at the mountain beasts. I was a mercenary swordsman again, a hetman of the kozaki who dwell along the Zaporoska River, a corsair looting the coasts of Kush, a pirate of the Barachan Isles, a chief of the Himelian hillmen. All these things I’ve been, and of all these things I dreamed; all the shapes that have been I passed like an endless procession, and their feet beat out a dirge in the sounding dust.  

“But throughout my dreams moved strange, veiled figures and ghostly shadows, and a faraway voice mocked me. And toward the last I seemed to see myself lying on this dais in my tent, and a shape bent over me, robed and hooded. I lay unable to move, and then the hood fell away and a moldering skull grinned down at me. Then it was that I awoke.”  

“This is an evil dream, your Majesty,” said Pallantides, suppressing a shudder. “But no more.”  

Conan shook his head, more in doubt than denial. He came of a barbaric race, and the superstitions and instincts of his heritage lurked close beneath the surface of his consciousness.  

“I’ve dreamed many evil dreams,” he said, “and most of them were meaningless. But by Crom, this was not like most dreams! I wish this battle were fought and won, for I’ve had a grisly premonition ever since King Nimed died of the black plague. Why did it cease when he died?”  

“Men say he sinned—”  

“Men are fools, as always,” grunted Conan. “If the plague struck all who sinned, then by Crom there wouldn’t be enough left to count the living! Why should the gods—who the priests tell me are just—slay five hundred peasants, merchants, and nobles before they slew the king, if the whole pestilence were aimed at him? Were the gods smiting blindly, like swordsmen in a fog? By Mitra, if I aimed my strokes no straighter, Aquilonia would have had a new king long ago.  

“No! The black plague’s no common pestilence. It lurks in Stygian tombs and is called forth into being only by wizards. I was a swordsman in Prince Almuric’s army that invaded Stygia, and of his thirty thousand, fifteen thousand perished by Stygian arrows, and the rest by the black plague that rolled on us like a wind out of the south. I was the only man who lived.”  

“Yet only five hundred died in Nemedia,” argued Pallantides.  

“Whoever called it into being knew how to cut it short at will,” answered Conan. “So I know there was something planned and diabolical about it. Someone called it forth, someone banished it when the work was done—when Tarascus was safe on the throne and being hailed as the deliverer of the people from the wrath of the gods. By Crom, I sense a black, subtle brain behind all this. What of this stranger who men say gives counsel to Tarascus?”  

“He wears a veil,” answered Pallantides. “They say he is a foreigner—a stranger from Stygia.”  

“A stranger from Stygia!” repeated Conan, scowling. “A stranger from hell, more like!—Ha! What is that?”  

“The trumpets of the Nemedians!” exclaimed Pallantides. “And hark, how our own blare upon their heels! Dawn is breaking, and the captains are marshaling the hosts for the onset! Mitra be with them, for many will not see the sun go down behind the crags.”  

“Send my squires to me!” exclaimed Conan, rising with alacrity and casting off his velvet night-garment; he seemed to have forgotten his forebodings at the prospect of action. “Go to the captains and see that all is in readiness. I will be with you as soon as I don my armor.”  

Many of Conan’s ways were inexplicable to the civilized people he ruled, and one of them was his insistence on sleeping alone in his chamber or tent. Pallantides hastened from the pavilion, clanking in the armor he had donned at midnight after a few hours’ sleep. He cast a swift glance over the camp, which was beginning to swarm with activity—mail clinking and men moving dimly in the uncertain light among the long lines of tents. Stars still glimmered palely in the western sky, but long pink streamers stretched along the eastern horizon, and against them the dragon banner of Nemedia flung out its billowing silken folds.  

Pallantides turned toward a smaller tent nearby, where the royal squires slept. They were already tumbling out, roused by the trumpets. And as Pallantides called to them to hasten, he was frozen speechless by a deep, fierce shout and the impact of a heavy blow inside the king’s tent, followed by the heart-stopping crash of a falling body. Then came a low laugh that turned the general’s blood to ice.  

Echoing the cry, Pallantides wheeled and rushed back into the pavilion. He cried out again as he saw Conan’s powerful frame stretched out on the carpet. The king’s great two-handed sword lay near his hand, and a shattered tent-pole showed where his stroke had fallen. Pallantides’ sword was out, and he glared about the tent, but nothing met his gaze. Save for the king and himself, it was empty, as it had been when he left it.  