The host on the opposite side of the valley was in motion, trotting down the long, gentle slope toward the river; their steel gleamed through the morning mists that swirled about their horses’ feet.  

The Aquilonian host moved leisurely to meet them. The measured tramp of armored horses made the ground tremble. Banners unfurled long silken folds in the morning wind; lances swayed like a bristling forest, dipping and sinking, their pennons fluttering.  

Ten men-at-arms—grim, taciturn veterans who could hold their tongues—guarded the royal pavilion. One squire stood within the tent, peering out through a slit in the doorway. Save for the few in the secret, none in the vast host knew that it was not Conan who rode the great stallion at the army’s head.  

The Aquilonian host had assumed the customary formation: the strongest part was the center, composed entirely of heavily armed knights; the wings were formed of smaller bodies of horsemen—mounted men-at-arms, mostly—supported by pikemen and archers. The latter were Bossonians from the western marches, sturdy men of medium stature, clad in leather jackets and iron headpieces.  

The Nemedian army advanced in similar formation, and the two hosts moved toward the river, their wings preceding their centers. In the midst of the Aquilonian host, the great lion banner streamed its billowing black folds over the steel-clad figure on the black stallion.  

But on his dais in the royal pavilion, Conan groaned in anguish of spirit and cursed with strange heathen oaths.  

“The hosts move together,” said the squire, watching from the door. “Hear the trumpets peal! Ha! The rising sun strikes fire from lance-heads and helmets until I am dazzled. It turns the river crimson—aye, it will be truly crimson before this day is done!  

“The foe have reached the river. Now arrows fly between the hosts like stinging clouds that hide the sun. Ha! Well loosed, bowmen! The Bossonians have the better of it! Hark to them shout!”  

Faintly, above the din of trumpets and clanging steel, the deep, fierce shout of the Bossonians reached the king’s ears as they drew and loosed in perfect unison.  

“Their archers seek to hold ours in play while their knights ride into the river,” said the squire. “The banks are not steep; they slope to the water’s edge. The knights come on—they crash through the willows. By Mitra, the clothyard shafts find every crevice of their harness! Horses and men go down, struggling and thrashing in the water. It is not deep, nor is the current swift, but men are drowning there, dragged under by their armor and trampled by frantic horses. Now the knights of Aquilonia advance. They ride into the water and engage the knights of Nemedia. The water swirls about their horses’ bellies, and the clang of sword against sword is deafening.”  

“Crom!” burst from Conan’s lips in agony. Life was coursing sluggishly back into his veins, but still he could not lift his mighty frame from the dais.  

“The wings close in,” said the squire. “Pikemen and swordsmen fight hand to hand in the stream, and behind them the bowmen ply their shafts.  

“By Mitra, the Nemedian arbalesters are sorely harried, and the Bossonians arch their arrows to drop amid the rear ranks. Their center gains not a foot, and their wings are pushed back from the stream again.”  

“Crom, Ymir, and Mitra!” raged Conan. “Gods and devils, could I but reach the fighting, if only to die at the first blow!”  

* * * * *  

Outside, through the long hot day, the battle stormed and thundered. The valley shook to charge and countercharge, to the whistling of shafts, and the crash of rending shields and splintering lances. But the hosts of Aquilonia held fast. Once they were forced back from the bank, but a countercharge, with the black banner flowing over the black stallion, regained the lost ground. Like an iron rampart they held the right bank of the stream, and at last the squire brought Conan the news that the Nemedians were falling back from the river.  

“Their wings are in confusion!” he cried. “Their knights reel back from the swordplay. But what is this? Your banner is in motion—the center sweeps into the stream! By Mitra, Valannus is leading the host across the river!”  

“Fool!” groaned Conan. “It may be a trick. He should hold his position; by dawn Prospero will be here with the Poitanian levies.”  

“The knights ride into a hail of arrows!” cried the squire. “But they do not falter! They sweep on—they have crossed! They charge up the slope! Pallantides has hurled the wings across the river to their support! It is all he can do. The lion banner dips and staggers above the mêlée.  

“The knights of Nemedia make a stand. They are broken! They fall back! Their left wing is in full flight, and our pikemen cut them down as they run! I see Valannus, riding and smiting like a madman. He is carried beyond himself by the fighting-lust. Men no longer look to Pallantides. They follow Valannus, deeming him Conan as he rides with closed visor.  

“But look! There is method in his madness! He swings wide of the Nemedian front with five thousand knights, the pick of the army. The main host of the Nemedians is in confusion—and look! Their flank is protected by the cliffs, but there is a defile left unguarded! It is like a great cleft in the wall that opens again behind the Nemedian lines. By Mitra, Valannus sees and seizes the opportunity! He has driven their wing before him, and he leads his knights toward that defile. They swing wide of the main battle; they cut through a line of spearmen—they charge into the defile!”  

“An ambush!” cried Conan, struggling to rise.  

“No!” shouted the squire exultantly. “The whole Nemedian host is in full sight! They have forgotten the defile! They never expected to be pushed back that far. Oh, fool, fool Tarascus, to make such a blunder! Ah, I see lances and pennons pouring from the farther mouth of the defile, beyond the Nemedian lines. They will smite those ranks from the rear and crush them. Mitra, what is this?”  