What he had heard registered in Conan’s mind but suggested nothing to him. He was like a mindless automaton that hears and sees but does not understand. Sights and sounds flowed meaninglessly around him. He lapsed again into deep lethargy, dimly aware only when the chariot halted in a high-walled court, and many hands lifted him, bearing him up a winding stone stair and down a long, dim corridor. Whispers, stealthy footsteps, and unrelated sounds surged and rustled about him, distant and irrelevant.  

Yet his final awakening was abrupt and crystal-clear. He possessed full knowledge of the battle in the mountains and its sequence of events, and he had a good idea of where he was.  

He lay on a velvet couch, clad as he had been the day before, but his limbs were loaded with chains that even he could not break. The room was furnished with somber magnificence—the walls draped in black velvet tapestries, the floor covered with heavy purple carpets. There was no sign of door or window, and a single curiously carved gold lamp, swinging from the fretted ceiling, shed a lurid light over all.  

In that light, the figure seated before him in a silver, throne-like chair seemed unreal and fantastic, its outline elusive beneath a filmy silken robe. Yet the features were distinct—unnaturally so in that uncertain glow. It was as if a weird nimbus played about the man’s head, casting the bearded face into bold relief, making it the only definite and tangible reality in that mystic, ghostly chamber.  

It was a magnificent face, with strongly chiseled features of classical beauty. Yet there was something disquieting in its calm tranquility—a suggestion of knowledge beyond human measure, of a profound certitude surpassing mortal assurance. An uneasy sense of familiarity tugged at the back of Conan’s mind. He knew he had never seen this man before, yet those features reminded him of something—or someone. It was like encountering in the flesh a dream-image that had haunted his nightmares.  

“Who are you?” demanded the king belligerently, struggling to a sitting position despite his chains.  

“Men call me Xaltotun,” came the reply, in a strong, golden voice.  

“What place is this?” the Cimmerian demanded next.  

“A chamber in the palace of King Tarascus, in Belverus.”  

Conan was not surprised. Belverus, the capital, was the largest Nemedian city near the border.  

“And where’s Tarascus?”  

“With the army.”  

“Well,” growled Conan, “if you mean to murder me, why don’t you do it and get it over with?”  

“I did not save you from the king’s archers to murder you in Belverus,” answered Xaltotun.  

“What devilry did you work on me?” demanded Conan.  

“I blasted your consciousness,” answered Xaltotun. “How, you would not understand. Call it black magic, if you will.”  

Conan had already reached that conclusion and was turning over something else in his mind.  

“I think I understand why you spared my life,” he rumbled. “Amalric wants to keep me as a check on Valerius, in case the impossible happens and he becomes king of Aquilonia. It’s well known that the baron of Tor is behind this move to seat Valerius on my throne. And if I know Amalric, he doesn’t intend Valerius to be anything more than a figurehead—just as Tarascus is now.”  

“Amalric knows nothing of your capture,” answered Xaltotun. “Neither does Valerius. Both believe you died at Valkia.”  

Conan’s eyes narrowed as he stared at the man in silence.  

“I sensed a brain behind all this,” he muttered, “but I thought it was Amalric’s. Are Amalric, Tarascus, and Valerius all but puppets dancing on your string? Who are you?”  

“What does it matter? If I told you, you would not believe me. What if I told you I might set you back on the throne of Aquilonia?”  

Conan’s eyes burned on him like a wolf’s.  

“What’s your price?”  

“Obedience to me.”  

“Go to hell with your offer!” snarled Conan. “I’m no figurehead. I won my crown with my sword. Besides, it’s beyond your power to buy and sell the throne of Aquilonia at your will. The kingdom’s not conquered; one battle doesn’t decide a war.”  

“You war against more than swords,” answered Xaltotun. “Was it a mortal’s blade that felled you in your tent before the fight? No—it was a child of the dark, a waif of outer space, whose fingers burned with the frozen cold of the black gulfs, freezing the blood in your veins and the marrow of your thews. Cold so intense it seared your flesh like white-hot iron!  

“Was it chance that led the man who wore your harness to lead his knights into the defile—chance that brought the cliffs crashing down upon them?”  

Conan glared at him in silence, a chill creeping along his spine. Wizards and sorcerers abounded in his barbaric mythology, and any fool could see this was no common man. Conan sensed something inexplicable about him—an alien aura of Time and Space, a sense of tremendous and sinister antiquity. Yet his stubborn spirit refused to flinch.  

“The fall of the cliffs was chance,” he muttered truculently. “The charge into the defile was what any man would have done.”  

“Not so. You would not have led a charge into it. You would have suspected a trap. You would never have crossed the river in the first place until you were sure the Nemedian rout was real. Hypnotic suggestion would not have invaded your mind, even in the madness of battle, to drive you to rush blindly into the trap laid for you, as it did the lesser man who masqueraded as you.”  

“Then if this was all planned,” Conan grunted skeptically, “all a plot to trap my host, why didn’t the ‘child of darkness’ kill me in my tent?”  

“Because I wished to take you alive. It took no wizardry to predict that Pallantides would send another man out in your harness. I wanted you alive and unhurt. You may yet fit into my scheme of things. There is a vital power in you greater than the craft and cunning of my allies. You are a dangerous enemy—but you might make a fine vassal.”  