Conan spat savagely at the word, and Xaltotun, ignoring his fury, took a crystal globe from a nearby table and placed it before him. He did not support it in any way, nor set it upon anything, but it hung motionless in midair, as solidly as if it rested on an iron pedestal. Conan snorted at this display of necromancy, though he was nevertheless impressed.

“Would you know what goes on in Aquilonia?” he asked.

Conan did not reply, but the sudden rigidity of his form betrayed his interest.

Xaltotun stared into the cloudy depths and spoke: “It is now the evening of the day after the battle of Valkia. Last night the main body of the army camped by Valkia, while squadrons of knights harried the fleeing Aquilonians. At dawn the host broke camp and pushed westward through the mountains. Prospero, with ten thousand Poitanians, was miles from the battlefield when he met the fleeing survivors in the early dawn. He had pressed on all night, hoping to reach the field before the battle joined. Unable to rally the remnants of the broken host, he fell back toward Tarantia. Riding hard, replacing his wearied horses with steeds seized from the countryside, he approaches Tarantia.

“I see his weary knights, their armor gray with dust, their pennons drooping as they urge their tired horses across the plain. I see also the streets of Tarantia. The city is in turmoil. Somehow word has reached the people of the defeat and the death of King Conan. The mob is mad with fear, crying out that the king is dead and there is none to lead them against the Nemedians. Giant shadows rush upon Aquilonia from the east, and the sky is black with vultures.”

Conan cursed deeply.

“What are these but words? The raggedest beggar in the street might prophesy as much. If you say you saw all that in the glass ball, then you’re a liar as well as a knave—of which last there’s no doubt! Prospero will hold Tarantia, and the barons will rally to him. Count Trocero of Poitain commands the kingdom in my absence, and he’ll drive these Nemedian dogs howling back to their kennels. What are fifty thousand Nemedians? Aquilonia will swallow them up. They’ll never see Belverus again. It’s not Aquilonia that was conquered at Valkia; it was only Conan.”

“Aquilonia is doomed,” answered Xaltotun, unmoved. “Lance and ax and torch shall conquer her; or if they fail, powers from the dark of ages shall march against her. As the cliffs fell at Valkia, so shall walled cities and mountains fall if the need arise, and rivers roar from their channels to drown whole provinces.

“Better if steel and bowstring prevail without further aid from the arts, for the constant use of mighty spells sometimes sets forces in motion that might rock the universe.”

“From what hell have you crawled, you nighted dog?” muttered Conan, staring at the man. The Cimmerian involuntarily shivered; he sensed something incredibly ancient, incredibly evil.

Xaltotun lifted his head, as if listening to whispers across the void. He seemed to have forgotten his prisoner. Then he shook his head impatiently and glanced impersonally at Conan.

“What? Why, if I told you, you would not believe me. But I am wearied of conversation with you; it is less fatiguing to destroy a walled city than to frame my thoughts in words a brainless barbarian can understand.”

“If my hands were free,” growled Conan, “I’d soon make a brainless corpse out of you.”

“I do not doubt it, if I were fool enough to give you the opportunity,” answered Xaltotun, clapping his hands.

His manner had changed; there was impatience in his tone and a certain nervousness in his bearing, though Conan did not think this attitude had anything to do with himself.

“Consider what I have told you, barbarian,” said Xaltotun. “You will have plenty of leisure. I have not yet decided what I shall do with you. It depends on circumstances yet unborn. But let this be impressed upon you: if I decide to use you in my game, it will be better to submit without resistance than to suffer my wrath.”

Conan spat a curse at him just as the hangings that masked a door swung apart and four giant negroes entered. Each was clad only in a silken breechcloth supported by a girdle from which hung a great key.

Xaltotun gestured impatiently toward the king and turned away, as if dismissing the matter entirely from his mind. His fingers twitched queerly. From a carved green jade box he took a handful of shimmering black dust and placed it in a brazier that stood on a golden tripod at his elbow. The crystal globe, which he seemed to have forgotten, suddenly fell to the floor as if its invisible support had been removed.

Then the blacks lifted Conan—for so loaded with chains was he that he could not walk—and carried him from the chamber. A glance back, before the heavy gold-bound teak door was closed, showed him Xaltotun leaning back in his throne-like chair, his arms folded, while a thin wisp of smoke curled up from the brazier. Conan’s scalp prickled. In Stygia, that ancient and evil kingdom far to the south, he had seen such black dust before. It was the pollen of the black lotus, which creates death-like sleep and monstrous dreams; and he knew that only the grisly wizards of the Black Ring, the nadir of evil, voluntarily seek the scarlet nightmares of the black lotus to revive their necromantic powers.

The Black Ring was a fable and a lie to most folk of the western world, but Conan knew of its ghastly reality and its grim votaries who practiced their abominable sorceries amid the black vaults of Stygia and the nighted domes of accursed Sabatea.

He glanced back at the cryptic, gold-bound door, shuddering at what it hid.

Whether it was day or night the king could not tell. The palace of King Tarascus seemed a shadowy, nighted place that shunned natural illumination. The spirit of darkness and shadow hovered over it, and that spirit, Conan felt, was embodied in the stranger Xaltotun. The negroes carried the king along a winding corridor so dimly lighted that they moved through it like black ghosts bearing a dead man, and down a stone stair that wound endlessly. A torch in the hand of one cast great deformed shadows streaming along the wall; it was like the descent into hell of a corpse borne by dusky demons.