At last they reached the foot of the stair, then traversed a long, straight corridor. On one side stretched a blank wall, pierced here and there by arched doorways with stairs leading upward behind them; on the other, a wall lined with heavy barred doors set at regular intervals of a few feet.

Halting before one of these doors, one of the blacks produced a key that hung from his girdle and turned it in the lock. Pushing open the grille, they entered with their captive. They found themselves in a small dungeon with heavy stone walls, floor, and ceiling. In the opposite wall was another grilled door. What lay beyond it Conan could not tell, but he doubted it was another corridor. The flickering torchlight glimmered through the bars, hinting at shadowy vastness and echoing depths beyond.

In one corner of the dungeon, near the door through which they had entered, a cluster of rusty chains hung from a great iron ring set in the stone. In these chains a skeleton dangled. Conan regarded it with grim curiosity, noting the condition of the bare bones—splintered and broken—and the skull, which had fallen from the vertebrae, crushed as if by a savage blow of tremendous force.

Stolidly, one of the blacks—not the one who had opened the door—removed the chains from the ring, using his key on the massive lock, and dragged the heap of rusty metal and shattered bones aside. Then they fastened Conan’s chains to that ring, and the third black turned his key in the lock of the farther door, grunting when he had assured himself it was properly fastened.

They regarded Conan cryptically—slit-eyed ebony giants, the torchlight striking highlights from their glossy skin.

The one who held the key to the nearer door spoke gutturally: “This your palace now, white dog-king! None but master and we know. All palace sleep. We keep secret. You live and die here, maybe. Like him!” He contemptuously kicked the shattered skull, sending it clattering across the stone floor.

Conan did not deign to reply, and the black, angered perhaps by his prisoner’s silence, muttered a curse, stooped, and spat full in the king’s face. It was an unfortunate move. Conan sat on the floor, chains about his waist, ankles, and wrists, locked to the ring in the wall. He could neither rise nor move more than a yard from it. But there was considerable slack in the chains that bound his wrists, and before the bullet-shaped head could be withdrawn out of reach, the king gathered the slack in his mighty hand and smote the black on the skull. The man fell like a butchered ox, and his comrades stared to see him lying with his scalp split open and blood oozing from his nose and ears.

They attempted no reprisal, nor did they accept Conan’s grim invitation to approach within reach of the bloody chain in his hand. Grunting in their ape-like speech, they lifted the senseless black and bore him out like a sack of grain, arms and legs dangling. They used his key to lock the door behind them but did not remove it from the gold chain fastened to his girdle. They took the torch with them, and as they moved up the corridor, the darkness crept in behind them like a living thing. Their soft, padding footsteps faded with the glimmer of their torch, and darkness and silence reigned unchallenged.

5 – THE HAUNTER OF THE PITS  
The Haunter of the Pits

Conan lay still, enduring the weight of his chains and the despair of his position with the stoicism of the wilds that had bred him. He did not move, for the jangle of his chains, when he shifted, sounded startlingly loud in the darkness and stillness. It was instinct—born of a thousand wilderness-bred ancestors—not to betray his position in helplessness. This was not the result of reasoned thought; he did not lie quiet because he feared some lurking danger might discover him. Xaltotun had assured him he would not be harmed, and Conan believed it was in the man’s interest to preserve him, at least for the time being. Yet the instincts of the wild remained—the same that had made him, as a child, lie silent while beasts prowled about his hiding place.

Even his keen eyes could not pierce the solid darkness. Yet after a time—he could not guess how long—a faint glow became apparent, a slanting gray beam by which Conan could vaguely see the bars of the door at his elbow and even make out the skeleton at the other grille. This puzzled him until he realized the explanation. He was far below ground, in the pits beneath the palace; yet for some reason a shaft had been constructed from somewhere above. Outside, the moon had risen to a point where its light slanted dimly down the shaft. In this way, he reflected, he could mark the passing of days and nights. Perhaps the sun, too, would shine down that shaft—or perhaps it was closed by day. It might even be a subtle form of torture, allowing a prisoner only a glimpse of daylight or moonlight.

His gaze fell on the broken bones in the far corner, glimmering dimly. He did not waste thought on who the wretch had been or why he had been doomed, but he wondered at the shattered condition of the bones. They had not been broken on a rack. Then, as he looked, another grim detail became evident: the shinbones were split lengthwise, and there was but one explanation—they had been broken to obtain the marrow. Yet what creature but man breaks bones for their marrow? Perhaps those remnants were mute evidence of a horrible, cannibalistic feast—some wretch driven mad by starvation. Conan wondered if his own bones would one day hang in their rusty chains. He fought down the unreasoning panic of a trapped wolf.

The Cimmerian did not curse, scream, weep, or rave as a civilized man might have done. But the pain and turmoil in his breast were no less fierce. His great limbs quivered with the intensity of his emotions. Somewhere far to the west, the Nemedian host was slashing and burning its way through the heart of his kingdom. The small host of the Poitanians could not stand before them. Prospero might hold Tarantia for weeks or months, but eventually, if not relieved, he must surrender to greater numbers. Surely the barons would rally to him against the invaders. But meanwhile he, Conan, must lie helpless in a darkened cell while others led his spears and fought for his kingdom. The king ground his powerful teeth in red rage.