Then he stiffened, for outside the farther door he heard a stealthy step. Straining his eyes, he made out a bent, indistinct figure beyond the grille. There came a rasp of metal against metal, and he heard the clink of tumblers, as if a key had turned in the lock. Then the figure moved silently out of his range of vision. Some guard, he supposed, testing the lock. After a while he heard the sound repeated faintly somewhere farther on, followed by the soft opening of a door and a swift scurry of softly shod feet retreating into the distance. Then silence fell again.  

Conan listened for what seemed a long time, though it could not have been, for the moon still shone down the hidden shaft. He heard no further sound. At last he shifted his position, and his chains clanked. Then came another, lighter footfall—a soft step outside the nearer door, the one through which he had entered the cell. An instant later, a slender figure was dimly etched in the gray light.  

“King Conan!” a soft voice intoned urgently. “Oh, my lord, are you there?”  

“Where else?” he answered guardedly, twisting his head to stare at the apparition.  

It was a girl who stood grasping the bars with slender fingers. The dim glow behind her outlined her supple figure through the wisp of silk twisted about her loins and shone faintly on jeweled breastplates. Her dark eyes gleamed in the shadows; her white limbs glistened softly, like alabaster. Her hair was a mass of dark foam, its burnished luster hinted at by the dim light.  

“The keys to your shackles and to the farther door!” she whispered, and a slim white hand came through the bars, dropping three objects with a clink onto the flags beside him.  

“What game is this?” he demanded. “You speak the Nemedian tongue, and I have no friends in Nemedia. What deviltry is your master plotting now? Has he sent you here to mock me?”  

“It is no mockery!” The girl trembled violently. Her bracelets and breastplates clinked against the bars she grasped. “I swear by Mitra! I stole the keys from the black jailers. They are the keepers of the pits, and each bears a key that opens only one set of locks. I made them drunk. The one whose head you broke was carried away to a leech, and I could not get his key. But the others I stole. Oh, please, do not linger! Beyond these dungeons lie the pits that are the doors to hell.”  

Somewhat impressed, Conan tried the keys dubiously, expecting only failure and a burst of mocking laughter. But he was galvanized to discover that one indeed freed him from his shackles, fitting not only the lock that held them to the ring but also the locks on his limbs. A few seconds later he stood upright, exulting fiercely in his newfound freedom. A quick stride carried him to the grille, and his fingers closed around a bar and the slender wrist pressed against it, imprisoning the owner, who lifted her face bravely to his fierce gaze.  

“Who are you, girl?” he demanded. “Why do you do this?”  

“I am only Zenobia,” she murmured, breathless as if in fright, “only a girl of the king’s seraglio.”  

“Unless this is some cursed trick,” muttered Conan, “I cannot see why you bring me these keys.”  

She bowed her dark head, then lifted it and looked full into his suspicious eyes. Tears sparkled like jewels on her long dark lashes.  

“I am only a girl of the king’s seraglio,” she said, with a certain proud humility. “He has never glanced at me, and probably never will. I am less than one of the dogs that gnaw the bones in his banquet hall.  

“But I am no painted toy; I am of flesh and blood. I breathe, hate, fear, rejoice—and love. And I have loved you, King Conan, ever since I saw you riding at the head of your knights through the streets of Belverus when you visited King Nimed years ago. My heart tugged at its strings to leap from my bosom and fall in the dust of the street beneath your horse’s hoofs.”  

Color flooded her face as she spoke, but her dark eyes did not waver. Conan did not at once reply; wild, passionate, and untamed as he was, even he could not remain unmoved by the baring of a woman’s naked soul.  

She bent her head, pressing her red lips to the fingers that imprisoned her slim wrist. Then she flung up her head as if suddenly recalling their peril, and terror flared in her dark eyes.  

“Haste!” she whispered urgently. “It is past midnight. You must be gone.”  

“But won’t they skin you alive for stealing these keys?”  

“They’ll never know. If the black men remember in the morning who gave them the wine, they will not dare admit the keys were stolen while they were drunk. The key I could not obtain is the one that unlocks this door. You must make your way to freedom through the pits. What awful perils lurk beyond that door I cannot guess. But greater danger awaits you if you remain in this cell.  

“King Tarascus has returned—”  

“What? Tarascus?”  

“Aye! He has returned, in great secrecy, and not long ago he descended into the pits and came out again, pale and shaking, like a man who has dared a great hazard. I heard him whisper to his squire, Arideus, that despite Xaltotun, you should die.”  

“What of Xaltotun?” murmured Conan.  

She shuddered.  

“Do not speak of him!” she whispered. “Demons are often summoned by the sound of their names. The slaves say he lies in his chamber behind a bolted door, dreaming the dreams of the black lotus. I believe even Tarascus secretly fears him, or he would slay you openly. But he has been in the pits tonight, and what he did there, only Mitra knows.”  

“I wonder if that could have been Tarascus who fumbled at my cell door awhile ago?” muttered Conan.  

“Here is a dagger!” she whispered, pressing something through the bars. His eager fingers closed on an object familiar to their touch. “Go quickly through yonder door, turn left, and make your way along the cells until you come to a stone stair. On your life, do not stray from the line of the cells! Climb the stair and open the door at the top; one of the keys will fit it. If it be the will of Mitra, I will await you there.” Then she was gone, her light slippered feet pattering away into the darkness.  