Conan shrugged and turned toward the farther grille. This might be some diabolical trap devised by Tarascus, but plunging headlong into a snare was less abhorrent to Conan’s nature than sitting meekly to await his doom. He inspected the weapon the girl had given him and smiled grimly. Whatever else she might be, that dagger proved her a person of practical intelligence. It was no slender stiletto chosen for a jeweled hilt or golden guard, fit only for dainty murder in a lady’s boudoir; it was a forthright poniard, a warrior’s weapon—broad-bladed, fifteen inches long, tapering to a diamond-sharp point.  

He grunted with satisfaction. The feel of the hilt cheered him and filled him with confidence. Whatever webs of conspiracy surrounded him, whatever trickery and treachery ensnared him, this knife was real. The great muscles of his right arm swelled in anticipation of murderous blows.  

He tried the farther door, fumbling with the keys. It was not locked. Yet he remembered the black man locking it. That furtive, bent figure, then, had not been a jailer checking the bolts but had unlocked the door instead. There was something sinister in that unlocked door. But Conan did not hesitate. He pushed upon the grille and stepped from the dungeon into the outer darkness.  

As he had thought, the door did not open into another corridor. The flagged floor stretched beneath his feet, and the line of cells ran away to right and left behind him, but he could not discern the other limits of the place. He could see neither roof nor wall. Moonlight filtered into that vastness only through the cell grilles and was almost lost in the gloom. Less keen eyes than his could scarcely have made out the dim gray patches floating before each cell door.  

Turning left, he moved swiftly and noiselessly along the line of dungeons, his bare feet soundless on the flags. He glanced briefly into each as he passed. They were all empty but locked. In some he caught the glimmer of naked white bones. These pits were relics of a grimmer age, built long ago when Belverus was a fortress rather than a city. Yet their more recent use had evidently been more extensive than the world guessed.  

Ahead, he saw the dim outline of a stair sloping sharply upward and knew it must be the one he sought. Then he whirled suddenly, crouching in the deep shadows at its foot.  

Something was moving behind him—something bulky and stealthy that padded on feet not human. He looked down the long row of cells, before each of which lay a square of dim gray light, little more than a patch of thinner darkness. Something was moving across those squares. What it was he could not tell, but it was heavy and huge, yet moved with more than human ease and swiftness. He glimpsed it as it passed through the gray patches, then lost it as it merged into the shadows between. Its stealthy advance was uncanny, appearing and vanishing like a blur of vision.  

He heard the bars rattle as it tried each door in turn. Now it had reached the cell he had so recently quitted, and the door swung open as it tugged. He saw a great bulky shape limned faintly in the gray doorway, then it vanished into the dungeon. Sweat beaded Conan’s face and hands. Now he knew why Tarascus had come so subtly to his door and fled so swiftly afterward. The king had unlocked his door and, somewhere in these hellish pits, had opened a cell that held some grim monstrosity.  

Now the thing was emerging again and advancing up the corridor, its misshapen head close to the ground. It no longer tested the locked doors; it was smelling out his trail. He saw it more clearly now—the gray light revealed a giant anthropoid body, vaster in bulk and girth than any man. It went on two legs, though it stooped forward, gray and shaggy, its thick coat shot with silver. Its head was a grisly travesty of the human, its long arms hanging nearly to the ground.  

Conan knew it at last—understood the meaning of those crushed and broken bones in the dungeon and recognized the haunter of the pits. It was a gray ape, one of the man-eating horrors from the forests that wave along the mountainous eastern shores of the Sea of Vilayet. Half mythical and wholly terrible, these apes were the goblins of Hyborian legend, ogres of the natural world—cannibals and murderers of the nighted forests.  

He knew it had scented him, for it was coming swiftly now, rolling its barrel-like body forward on short, mighty, bowed legs. He cast a quick glance up the long stair but knew the thing would be upon him before he could reach the distant door. He chose to meet it face to face.  

Conan stepped into the nearest square of moonlight to gain what advantage of illumination he could, for the beast, he knew, could see better than he in the dark. Instantly the brute saw him; its great yellow tusks gleamed in the shadows, but it made no sound. Creatures of night and silence, the gray apes of Vilayet were voiceless. Yet in its dim, hideous features—a bestial travesty of a human face—there showed ghastly exultation.  

Conan stood poised, watching the oncoming monster without a quiver. He knew he must stake his life on one thrust; there would be no chance for another, no time to strike and spring away. The first blow must kill, and kill instantly, if he hoped to survive that awful grapple. His gaze swept over the short, squat throat, the hairy belly, and the mighty breast swelling in giant arches like twin shields. It must be the heart; better to risk the blade being deflected by heavy ribs than to strike where the blow was not instantly fatal. With full realization of the odds, Conan matched his speed of eye and hand and his muscular power against the brute strength and ferocity of the man-eater. He must meet the beast breast to breast, strike a death-blow, and trust to the ruggedness of his frame to survive the instant of manhandling that was sure to follow.  