As the ape came rolling in on him, swinging wide its terrible arms, he plunged between them and struck with all his desperate strength. He felt the blade sink to the hilt in the hairy breast, and instantly, releasing it, he ducked his head and bunched his whole body into a compact mass of knotted muscles. As he did so, he grasped the closing arms and drove his knee fiercely into the monster’s belly, bracing himself against that crushing grapple.

For one dizzy instant he felt as if he were being torn apart in the grip of an earthquake; then suddenly he was free, sprawling on the floor, while the monster gasped out its life beneath him, its red eyes turned upward, the hilt of the poniard quivering in its breast. His desperate stab had gone home.

Conan was panting as if after a long conflict, trembling in every limb. Some of his joints felt as if they had been dislocated, and blood dripped from scratches on his skin where the monster’s talons had ripped him; his muscles and tendons had been savagely wrenched and twisted. If the beast had lived a second longer, it would surely have torn him apart. But the Cimmerian’s mighty strength had resisted, for the fleeting instant it endured, the dying convulsion of the ape that would have ripped a lesser man limb from limb.

6 - THE THRUST OF A KNIFE  
The Thrust of a Knife

Conan stooped and tore the knife from the monster’s breast. Then he went swiftly up the stair. What other shapes of fear the darkness held he could not guess, but he had no desire to encounter any more. This touch-and-go sort of battling was too strenuous even for the giant Cimmerian. The moonlight was fading from the floor, the darkness closing in, and something like panic pursued him up the stair. He breathed a gusty sigh of relief when he reached the head and felt the third key turn in the lock. He opened the door slightly and craned his neck to peer through, half expecting an attack from some human or bestial enemy.

He looked into a bare stone corridor, dimly lit, and a slender, supple figure stood before the door.

“Your Majesty!” It was a low, vibrant cry, half in relief and half in fear. The girl sprang to his side, then hesitated as if abashed.

“You bleed,” she said. “You have been hurt!”

He brushed aside the concern with an impatient hand.

“Scratches that wouldn’t hurt a baby. Your skewer came in handy, though. But for it, Tarascus’ monkey would be cracking my shinbones for the marrow right now. But what now?”

“Follow me,” she whispered. “I will lead you outside the city wall. I have a horse concealed there.”

She turned to lead the way down the corridor, but he laid a heavy hand on her bare shoulder.

“Walk beside me,” he instructed softly, passing his massive arm about her lithe waist. “You’ve played me fair so far, and I’m inclined to believe in you; but I’ve lived this long only because I’ve trusted no one too far, man or woman. So—if you play me false, you won’t live to enjoy the jest.”

She did not flinch at the sight of the reddened poniard or the contact of his hard muscles against her supple body.

“Cut me down without mercy if I play you false,” she answered. “The very feel of your arm about me, even in menace, is the fulfillment of a dream.”

The vaulted corridor ended at a door, which she opened. Outside lay another black man, a giant in turban and silk loincloth, with a curved sword lying on the flags near his hand. He did not move.

“I drugged his wine,” she whispered, swerving to avoid the recumbent figure. “He is the last, and outer, guard of the pits. None ever escaped from them before, and none has ever wished to seek them; so only these black men guard them. Only these of all the servants knew it was King Conan that Xaltotun brought a prisoner in his chariot. I was watching, sleepless, from an upper casement that opened into the court, while the other girls slept; for I knew that a battle was being fought, or had been fought, in the west, and I feared for you...

“I saw the blacks carry you up the stair, and I recognized you in the torchlight. I slipped into this wing of the palace tonight, in time to see them carry you to the pits. I had not dared come here before nightfall. You must have lain in drugged senselessness all day in Xaltotun’s chamber.

“Oh, let us be wary! Strange things are afoot in the palace tonight. The slaves said that Xaltotun slept as he often sleeps, drugged by the lotus of Stygia, but Tarascus is in the palace. He entered secretly, through the postern, wrapped in his cloak, dusty as with long travel, and attended only by his squire, the lean, silent Arideus. I cannot understand, but I am afraid.”

They came out at the foot of a narrow, winding stair, and mounting it, passed through a narrow panel which she slid aside. When they had passed through, she slipped it back in place, and it became merely a portion of the ornate wall. They were in a more spacious corridor, carpeted and tapestried, over which hanging lamps shed a golden glow.

Conan listened intently, but heard no sound throughout the palace. He did not know in what part of the palace he was, or in which direction lay the chamber of Xaltotun. The girl was trembling as she drew him along the corridor, halting presently beside an alcove masked with satin tapestry. Drawing this aside, she motioned for him to step into the niche and whispered, “Wait here! Beyond that door at the end of the corridor we are likely to meet slaves or eunuchs at any time of the day or night. I will go and see if the way is clear before we attempt it.”

Instantly his hair-trigger suspicions were aroused.

“Are you leading me into a trap?”

Tears sprang into her dark eyes. She sank to her knees and seized his muscular hand.

“Oh, my king, do not mistrust me now!” Her voice shook with desperate urgency. “If you doubt and hesitate, we are lost! Why should I bring you up out of the pits to betray you now?”

“All right,” he muttered. “I’ll trust you; though, by Crom, the habits of a lifetime are not easily put aside. Yet I wouldn’t harm you now, even if you brought all the swordsmen in Nemedia upon me. But for you, Tarascus’ cursed ape would have come upon me in chains and unarmed. Do as you wish, girl.”