“We are cut off! I locked that door as I came through it, but they’ll burst it open in a moment. The way to the postern gate lies beyond it.”

Conan wheeled. Up the corridor, though still out of sight, he heard a rising clamor that told him his foes were behind as well as before him.

“Quick! Into this door!” the girl cried desperately, running across the corridor and throwing open the door of a chamber.

Conan followed her through and threw the gold catch behind them. They stood in an ornately furnished room, empty but for themselves, and she drew him to a gold-barred window through which he saw trees and shrubbery.

“You are strong,” she panted. “If you can tear these bars away, you may yet escape. The garden is full of guards, but the shrubs are thick, and you may avoid them. The southern wall is also the outer wall of the city. Once over that, you have a chance to get away. A horse is hidden for you in a thicket beside the road that runs westward, a few hundred paces south of the fountain of Thrallos. You know where it is?”

“Aye! But what of you? I meant to take you with me.”

A flood of joy lit her beautiful face.

“Then my cup of happiness is brimming! But I will not hinder your escape. Burdened with me, you would fail. Nay, do not fear for me. They will never suspect that I aided you willingly. Go! What you have just said will glorify my life through all the long years.”

He caught her up in his iron arms, crushed her slim, vibrant figure to him, and kissed her fiercely on eyes, cheeks, throat, and lips until she lay panting in his embrace. Gusty and tempestuous as a storm wind, even his love-making was violent.

“I’ll go,” he muttered. “But by Crom, I’ll come for you someday!”

Wheeling, he gripped the gold bars and tore them from their sockets with one tremendous wrench, swung a leg over the sill, and went down swiftly, clinging to the ornaments on the wall. He hit the ground running and melted like a shadow into the maze of towering rosebushes and spreading trees. One look back over his shoulder showed Zenobia leaning over the windowsill, her arms stretched after him in mute farewell and renunciation.

Guards were running through the garden, all converging toward the palace, where the clamor grew louder by the moment—tall men in burnished cuirasses and crested helmets of polished bronze. The starlight struck glints from their gleaming armor among the trees, betraying their every movement, but the sound of their coming ran far before them. To Conan, wilderness-bred, their rush through the shrubbery was like the blundering stampede of cattle. Some passed within a few feet of where he lay flat in a thick cluster of bushes, never guessing his presence. With the palace as their goal, they were oblivious to all else. When they had gone shouting on, he rose and fled through the garden with no more noise than a panther would have made.

Swiftly he came to the southern wall and mounted the steps that led to the parapet. The wall was built to keep people out, not in. No sentry patrolled the battlements. Crouching by an embrasure, he glanced back at the great palace rearing above the cypresses behind him. Lights blazed from every window, and he could see figures flitting back and forth across them like puppets on invisible strings. He grinned grimly, shook his fist in a gesture of farewell and menace, and let himself over the outer rim of the parapet.

A low tree, a few yards below, received Conan’s weight as he dropped noiselessly into the branches. An instant later he was racing through the shadows with the swinging hillman’s stride that devours long miles.

Gardens and pleasure villas surrounded the walls of Belverus. Drowsy slaves, sleeping by their watchmen’s pikes, did not see the swift, furtive figure that scaled walls, crossed alleys arched by trees, and threaded a noiseless way through orchards and vineyards. Watchdogs woke and lifted their deep-booming clamor at a gliding shadow, half scented, half sensed—and then it was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a chamber of the palace, Tarascus writhed and cursed on a blood-spattered couch under the deft, quick fingers of Orastes. The palace was thronged with wide-eyed, trembling servitors, but the chamber where the king lay was empty save for himself and the renegade priest.

“Are you sure he still sleeps?” Tarascus demanded again, setting his teeth against the bite of the herb juices with which Orastes was bandaging the long, ragged gash in his shoulder and ribs. “Ishtar, Mitra, and Set! That burns like molten pitch of hell!”

“Which you would be experiencing even now but for your good fortune,” remarked Orastes. “Whoever wielded that knife struck to kill. Yes, I have told you that Xaltotun still sleeps. Why are you so urgent on that point? What has he to do with this?”

“You know nothing of what has passed in the palace tonight?” Tarascus searched the priest’s face with burning intensity.

“Nothing. As you know, I have been employed for months translating manuscripts for Xaltotun—transcribing esoteric volumes written in the younger languages into script he can read. He was well versed in all the tongues and scripts of his day, but he has not yet learned all the newer languages, and to save time he has me translate these works for him, to learn if any new knowledge has been discovered since his era. I did not know he had returned last night until he sent for me and told me of the battle. Then I returned to my studies, nor did I know you had come back until the clamor in the palace brought me from my cell.”

“Then you do not know that Xaltotun brought the king of Aquilonia captive to this palace?”

Orastes shook his head, without particular surprise.

“Xaltotun merely said that Conan would oppose us no more. I supposed he had fallen, but did not ask the details.”

“Xaltotun saved his life when I would have slain him,” snarled Tarascus. “I saw his purpose instantly. He would hold Conan captive to use as a club against us—against Amalric, against Valerius, and against myself. So long as Conan lives, he is a threat, a unifying force for Aquilonia that might be used to compel us into courses we would not otherwise follow. I mistrust this undead Pythonian. Of late I have begun to fear him.”