I followed him some hours after he had departed eastward. I wished to learn what he intended to do with Conan. I found that he had imprisoned him in the pits. I meant to see that the barbarian died, in spite of Xaltotun. And I accomplished—  

A cautious knock sounded at the door.  

“That’s Arideus,” grunted Tarascus. “Let him in.”  

The saturnine squire entered, his eyes blazing with suppressed excitement.  

“How, Arideus?” exclaimed Tarascus. “Have you found the man who attacked me?”  

“You did not see him, my lord?” asked Arideus, as one confirming a fact he already knew. “You did not recognize him?”  

“No. It happened so quickly, and the candle was out—all I could think was that it was some devil loosed on me by Xaltotun’s magic—”  

“The Pythonian sleeps in his barred and bolted room. But I have been in the pits.” Arideus twitched his lean shoulders excitedly.  

“Well, speak, man!” exclaimed Tarascus impatiently. “What did you find there?”  

“An empty dungeon,” whispered the squire. “The corpse of the great ape!”  

“What?” Tarascus started upright, and blood gushed from his reopened wound.  

“Aye! The man-eater is dead—stabbed through the heart—and Conan is gone!”  

Tarascus’s face turned gray as he mechanically allowed Orastes to force him prostrate again while the priest renewed his work upon the mangled flesh.  

“Conan!” he repeated. “Not a crushed corpse—escaped! Mitra! He is no man, but a devil himself! I thought Xaltotun was behind this wound. I see now. Gods and devils! It was Conan who stabbed me! Arideus!”  

“Aye, your Majesty!”  

“Search every nook in the palace. He may be skulking through the dark corridors now like a hungry tiger. Let no niche escape your scrutiny—and beware. It is not a civilized man you hunt, but a blood-mad barbarian whose strength and ferocity are those of a wild beast. Scour the palace grounds and the city. Throw a cordon about the walls. If you find he has escaped from the city, as he may well do, take a troop of horsemen and follow him. Once past the walls, it will be like hunting a wolf through the hills. But haste, and you may yet catch him.”  

“This is a matter that requires more than ordinary human wits,” said Orastes. “Perhaps we should seek Xaltotun’s advice.”  

“No!” exclaimed Tarascus violently. “Let the troopers pursue Conan and slay him. Xaltotun can hold no grudge against us if we kill a prisoner to prevent his escape.”  

“Well,” said Orastes, “I am no Acheronian, but I am versed in some of the arts, and in the control of certain spirits that have cloaked themselves in material substance. Perhaps I can aid you in this matter.”  

* * * * *  

The fountain of Thrallos stood in a clustered ring of oaks beside the road a mile from the city walls. Its musical tinkle reached Conan’s ears through the silence of the starlight. He drank deeply of its icy stream, then hurried southward toward a small, dense thicket he saw nearby. Rounding it, he found a great white horse tied among the bushes. Heaving a deep, gusty sigh, he reached it in one stride—when a mocking laugh brought him about, glaring.  

A dull-glinting, mail-clad figure moved out of the shadows into the starlight. This was no plumed and burnished palace guardsman. It was a tall man in morion and gray chain mail—one of the Adventurers, a class of warriors peculiar to Nemedia: men who had not attained the wealth and position of knighthood, or had fallen from that estate; hard-bitten fighters dedicating their lives to war and adventure. They formed a class of their own, sometimes commanding troops, but accountable to no man save the king. Conan knew he could have been discovered by no more dangerous foe.  

A quick glance among the shadows convinced him the man was alone, and he expanded his great chest slightly, digging his toes into the turf as his thews coiled tensely.  

“I was riding for Belverus on Amalric’s business,” said the Adventurer, advancing warily. The starlight gleamed along the great two-handed sword he bore naked in his hand. “A horse whinnied to mine from the thicket. I investigated and thought it strange a steed should be tethered here. I waited—and lo, I have caught a rare prize!”  

The Adventurers lived by their swords.  

“I know you,” muttered the Nemedian. “You are Conan, king of Aquilonia. I thought I saw you die in the valley of the Valkia, but—”  

Conan sprang as a dying tiger springs. Practiced fighter though the Adventurer was, he did not realize the desperate quickness that lurks in barbaric sinews. He was caught off guard, his heavy sword half lifted. Before he could strike or parry, the king’s poniard drove into his throat above the gorget, slanting downward into his heart. With a choked gurgle he reeled and went down, and Conan ruthlessly tore his blade free as his victim fell. The white horse snorted violently and shied at the sight and scent of blood on the sword.  

Glaring down at his lifeless enemy, dripping poniard in hand, sweat glistening on his broad breast, Conan stood poised like a statue, listening intently. In the woods about him there was no sound save the sleepy cheep of awakened birds. But in the city, a mile away, he heard the strident blare of a trumpet.  

Hastily he bent over the fallen man. A few seconds’ search convinced him that whatever message the man might have borne was meant to be delivered by word of mouth. But he did not pause in his task. It was only a few hours until dawn. A few minutes later the white horse was galloping westward along the pale road, and its rider wore the gray mail of a Nemedian Adventurer.  

7 - THE RENDING OF THE VEIL  
The Rending of the Veil  

Conan knew his only chance of escape lay in speed. He did not even consider hiding near Belverus until the chase passed on; he was certain the uncanny ally of Tarascus would be able to ferret him out. Besides, he was not one to skulk and hide; an open fight or an open chase suited his temperament far better. He knew he had a long start. He would lead them a grinding race for the border.  