Zenobia had chosen well in selecting the white horse. Its speed, toughness, and endurance were evident. The girl knew weapons and horses, and, Conan reflected with some satisfaction, she knew men. He rode westward at a gait that devoured the miles.  

It was a sleeping land through which he passed, past grove-sheltered villages and white-walled villas amid spacious fields and orchards that grew sparser as he traveled west. As the villages thinned, the land became more rugged, and the keeps that frowned from the heights spoke of centuries of border war. But none rode down from those castles to challenge or halt him. The lords of the keeps were following Amalric’s banner; the pennons that once waved over those towers now floated above the Aquilonian plains.  

When the last huddled village fell behind him, Conan left the road, which was beginning to bend northwest toward the distant passes. To keep to the road would mean passing border towers still garrisoned with armed men who would not let him pass unquestioned. He knew there would be no patrols riding the border marches on either side, as in ordinary times, but there were those towers, and with dawn there would likely be cavalcades of returning soldiers with wounded men in ox-carts.  

This road from Belverus was the only one that crossed the border for fifty miles from north to south. It followed a series of passes through the hills, and on either hand lay a wide expanse of wild, sparsely inhabited mountains. He maintained his westerly course, intending to cross the border deep in the wilds of the hills lying south of the passes. It was a shorter route, more arduous, but safer for a hunted fugitive. One man on horseback could traverse country an army would find impassable.  

But at dawn he had not yet reached the hills; they stretched before him as a long, low blue rampart along the horizon. Here there were neither farms nor villages, no white-walled villas among clustering trees. The dawn wind stirred the tall, stiff grass, and there was nothing but the long rolling swells of brown earth covered with dry grass, and in the distance the gaunt walls of a stronghold on a low hill. Too many Aquilonian raiders had crossed the mountains in recent days for the countryside to be as thickly settled as it was farther east.  

Dawn ran like prairie fire across the grasslands, and high overhead sounded a weird crying as a straggling wedge of wild geese winged swiftly southward. In a grassy swale Conan halted and unsaddled his mount. Its sides were heaving, its coat plastered with sweat. He had pushed it mercilessly through the hours before dawn.  

While it munched the brittle grass and rolled, he lay on the crest of a low slope, staring eastward. Far to the north he could see the road he had left, streaming like a white ribbon over a distant rise. No black dots moved along that glistening ribbon. There was no sign from the distant castle to indicate that the keepers had noticed the lone wayfarer.  

An hour later the land still stretched bare. The only sign of life was a glint of steel on the far-off battlements and a raven in the sky that wheeled back and forth, dipping and rising as if searching for something. Conan saddled up and rode westward at a more leisurely pace.  

As he topped the next crest, a raucous screaming burst out overhead, and looking up, he saw the raven flapping high above him, cawing incessantly. As he rode on, it followed, keeping its position and making the morning hideous with its strident cries, heedless of his efforts to drive it away.  

This continued for hours, until Conan’s teeth were on edge, and he felt he would give half his kingdom for the chance to wring that black neck.  

“Devils of hell!” he roared in futile rage, shaking his mailed fist at the frantic bird. “Why do you harry me with your squawking? Begone, you black spawn of perdition, and peck for wheat in the farmer’s fields!”  

He was ascending the first pitch of the hills when he seemed to hear an echo of the bird’s clamor far behind him. Turning in his saddle, he made out another black dot hanging in the blue. Beyond that, he caught the glint of the afternoon sun on steel. That could mean only one thing: armed men. And they were not riding along the beaten road, which lay out of sight beyond the horizon. They were following him.  

His face grew grim, and he shivered slightly as he stared at the raven wheeling high above.  

“So it is more than the whim of a brainless beast?” he muttered. “Those riders cannot see you, spawn of hell, but the other bird can see you, and they can see him. You follow me, he follows you, and they follow him. Are you merely a craftily trained creature, or some devil in the form of a bird? Did Xaltotun set you on my trail? Are you Xaltotun?”  

Only a strident screech answered him, vibrating with harsh mockery.  

Conan wasted no more breath on his dark betrayer. Grimly he settled into the long grind of the hills. He dared not push the horse too hard; the rest he had given it was not enough to refresh it. He was still far ahead of his pursuers, but they would steadily close the gap. Their horses were almost certainly fresher than his, for they had likely changed mounts at the castle he had passed.  

The terrain grew rougher, the scenery more rugged, steep grassy slopes rising to densely timbered mountainsides. Here, he knew, he might have eluded his hunters—if not for that hellish bird squalling incessantly above him. He could no longer see his pursuers in the broken country, but he was certain they still followed, guided unerringly by their feathered ally. That black shape became like a demonic incubus, hounding him through measureless hells. The stones he hurled with a curse went wide or fell harmless, though in his youth he had felled hawks on the wing.  

The horse was tiring fast. Conan recognized the grim finality of his position. He sensed an inexorable fate driving him. He could not escape. He was as much a captive as he had been in the pits of Belverus. But he was no son of the Orient to yield passively to what seemed inevitable. If he could not escape, he would at least take some of his foes into eternity with him. He turned into a wide thicket of larches that masked a slope, searching for a place to make his stand.  