In the hut, she seated the king on a rough, hide-covered bench, while she herself sat upon a low stool before the tiny fireplace. There she built a fire of tamarisk chunks and prepared a frugal meal. The great wolf drowsed beside her, facing the flames, his massive head sunk upon his paws, his ears twitching in his dreams.  

“You do not fear to sit in the hut of a witch?” she asked at last, breaking her silence.  

An impatient shrug of his gray-mailed shoulders was her guest’s only reply. She handed him a wooden dish heaped with dried fruits, cheese, and barley bread, along with a great pot of the heady upland beer brewed from barley grown in the high valleys.  

“I have found the brooding silence of the glens more pleasing than the babble of city streets,” she said. “The children of the wild are kinder than the children of men.” Her hand briefly stroked the ruff of the sleeping wolf. “My children were afar from me today, or I would not have needed your sword, my king. They were coming at my call.”  

“What grudge had those Nemedian dogs against you?” Conan demanded.  

“Skulkers from the invading army stray all over the countryside, from the frontier to Tarantia,” she answered. “The foolish villagers in the valleys told them I had a store of gold hidden away, hoping to divert their attention from their own homes. They demanded treasure from me, and my answers angered them. But neither skulkers, nor the men who pursue you, nor any raven will find you here.”  

He shook his head, eating ravenously.  

“I’m for Tarantia.”  

She shook her head.  

“You thrust your head into the dragon’s jaws. Best seek refuge abroad. The heart is gone from your kingdom.”  

“What do you mean?” he demanded. “Battles have been lost before, yet wars won. A kingdom is not lost by a single defeat.”  

“And you will go to Tarantia?”  

“Aye. Prospero will be holding it against Amalric.”  

“Are you sure?”  

“Hell’s devils, woman!” he exclaimed wrathfully. “What else?”  

She shook her head. “I feel it is otherwise. Let us see. Not lightly is the veil rent; yet I will rend it a little and show you your capital city.”  

Conan did not see what she cast upon the fire, but the wolf whimpered in his dreams, and a green smoke gathered and billowed up into the hut. As he watched, the walls and ceiling seemed to widen, to grow remote and vanish, merging with infinite immensities. The smoke rolled about him, blotting out everything. In it, forms moved and faded, then stood out in startling clarity.  

He stared at the familiar towers and streets of Tarantia, where a mob seethed and screamed. At the same time, he somehow saw the banners of Nemedia moving inexorably westward through the smoke and flame of a pillaged land. In the great square of Tarantia, the frantic throng milled and yammered, shouting that the king was dead, that the barons were girding themselves to divide the land, and that the rule of a king—even of Valerius—was better than anarchy. Prospero, shining in his armor, rode among them, trying to pacify them, bidding them trust Count Trocero, urging them to man the walls and aid his knights in defending the city. They turned on him, shrieking with fear and unreasoning rage, howling that he was Trocero’s butcher, a worse foe than Amalric himself. Offal and stones were hurled at his knights.  

A slight blurring of the vision, perhaps denoting the passing of time, and Conan saw Prospero and his knights filing out of the gates and spurring southward. Behind them, the city was in uproar.  

“Fools!” muttered Conan thickly. “Fools! Why could they not trust Prospero? Zelata, if you are making game of me with some trickery—”  

“This has passed,” answered Zelata imperturbably, though somberly. “It was the evening of the day just gone when Prospero rode out of Tarantia, with the hosts of Amalric almost within sight. From the walls men saw the flames of their pillaging. So I read it in the smoke. At sunset the Nemedians rode into Tarantia, unopposed. Look! Even now, in the royal hall of Tarantia—”  

Abruptly Conan was looking into the great coronation hall. Valerius stood on the regal dais, clad in ermine robes, while Amalric, still in his dusty, blood-stained armor, placed a rich and gleaming circlet upon his yellow locks—the crown of Aquilonia! The people cheered; long lines of steel-clad Nemedian warriors looked grimly on, and nobles long in disfavor at Conan’s court strutted and swaggered with the emblem of Valerius on their sleeves.  

“Crom!” The word burst explosively from Conan’s lips as he sprang up, his great fists clenched into hammers, the veins on his temples knotting, his features convulsed. “A Nemedian placing the crown of Aquilonia on that renegade—in the royal hall of Tarantia!”  

As if dispelled by his violence, the smoke faded, and he saw Zelata’s black eyes gleaming at him through the mist.  

“You have seen—the people of your capital have forfeited the freedom you won for them by sweat and blood. They have sold themselves to the slavers and the butchers. They have shown they do not trust their own destiny. Can you rely upon them to win back your kingdom?”  

“They thought I was dead,” he grunted, regaining some of his composure. “I have no son. Men cannot be governed by a memory. What if the Nemedians have taken Tarantia? There still remain the provinces, the barons, and the people of the countryside. Valerius has won an empty glory.”  

“You are stubborn, as befits a fighter. I cannot show you the future, nor all the past. Nay, I show you nothing. I merely make you see windows opened in the veil by powers unguessed. Would you look into the past for a clue to the present?”  

“Aye.” He seated himself abruptly.  

Again the green smoke rose and billowed. Again images unfolded before him, this time alien and seemingly irrelevant. He saw great towering black walls, pedestals half hidden in shadow upholding images of hideous, half-bestial gods. Men moved in the gloom—dark, wiry men clad in red silken loincloths—bearing a green jade sarcophagus along a gigantic black corridor. But before he could discern more, the scene shifted. He saw a cavern, dim, shadowy, and haunted by a strange, intangible horror. On an altar of black stone stood a curious golden vessel, shaped like the shell of a scallop. Into this cavern came some of the same dark, wiry men who had borne the mummy-case. They seized the golden vessel, and then the shadows swirled around them, and what happened he could not say. But he saw a glimmer in a whorl of darkness, like a ball of living fire. Then the smoke was only smoke again, drifting up from the tamarisk fire, thinning and fading.  