There was but one grim blot on the landscape—a charred expanse of ashes and blackened stone where, Conan knew, had once stood the stately villa of one of his staunchest supporters.  

The king dared not openly approach the Galannus farm, which lay only a few miles from the city. In the twilight he rode through an extensive woodland until he sighted a keeper’s lodge among the trees. Dismounting and tying his horse, he approached the thick, arched door with the intention of sending the keeper after Servius. He did not know what enemies the manor house might be sheltering. He had seen no troops, but they might be quartered throughout the countryside. As he drew near, however, he saw the door open and a compact figure in silk hose and a richly embroidered doublet stride forth and turn up a path winding away through the woods.  

“Servius!”  

At the low call, the master of the plantation wheeled with a startled exclamation. His hand flew to the short hunting sword at his hip, and he recoiled from the tall, gray steel figure standing in the dusk before him.  

“Who are you?” he demanded. “What is your—Mitra!”  

His breath hissed inward and his ruddy face paled. “Avaunt!” he cried. “Why have you come back from the gray lands of death to terrify me? I was always your true liegeman in your lifetime—”  

“As I still expect you to be,” answered Conan. “Stop trembling, man; I’m flesh and blood.”  

Sweating with uncertainty, Servius approached and stared into the face of the mail-clad giant. Convinced at last of the reality before him, he dropped to one knee and doffed his plumed cap.  

“Your Majesty! Truly, this is a miracle beyond belief! The great bell in the citadel tolled your dirge days ago. Men said you died at Valkia, crushed under a mountain of earth and granite.”  

“It was another in my harness,” grunted Conan. “But let us talk later. If there’s a joint of beef on your board—”  

“Forgive me, my lord!” cried Servius, springing to his feet. “The dust of travel is gray on your mail, and I keep you standing here without rest or sup! Mitra! I see well enough now that you are alive, but I swear, when I turned and saw you standing all gray and dim in the twilight, the marrow in my knees turned to water. It is an ill thing to meet a man you thought dead in the woods at dusk.”  

“Bid the keeper see to my steed, which is tied behind yonder oak,” requested Conan. Servius nodded, drawing the king up the path. The patrician, recovering from his supernatural fright, had become extremely nervous.  

“I will send a servant from the manor,” he said. “The keeper is in his lodge—but I dare not trust even my servants in these days. It is better that only I know of your presence.”  

Approaching the great house that glimmered dimly through the trees, he turned aside into a little-used path running between close-set oaks whose intertwining branches formed a vault overhead, shutting out the last light of dusk. Servius hurried on through the darkness without speaking, panic edging his manner, and presently led Conan through a small side door into a narrow, dimly lit corridor. They traversed it in haste and silence, and Servius brought the king into a spacious chamber with a high, oak-beamed ceiling and richly paneled walls. Logs flamed in the wide fireplace, for there was a frosty edge to the air, and a great meat pasty on a stone platter stood smoking on a broad mahogany board. Servius locked the massive door and extinguished the candles that stood in a silver candlestick on the table, leaving the chamber illuminated only by the fire on the hearth.  

“Your pardon, your Majesty,” he apologized. “These are perilous times; spies lurk everywhere. It is better that none be able to peer through the windows and recognize you. This pasty, however, is fresh from the oven, as I intended to sup upon my return from speaking with my keeper. If your Majesty would deign—”  

“The light is sufficient,” grunted Conan, seating himself with scant ceremony and drawing his poniard.  

He dug ravenously into the luscious dish and washed it down with great gulps of wine from grapes grown in Servius’ vineyards. He seemed oblivious to any sense of peril, but Servius shifted uneasily on his settle by the fire, nervously fingering the heavy gold chain about his neck. He glanced continually at the diamond panes of the casement, gleaming dimly in the firelight, and cocked his ear toward the door, as if half expecting to hear the pad of furtive feet in the corridor beyond.  

Finishing his meal, Conan rose and seated himself on another settle before the fire.  

“I won’t jeopardize you long by my presence, Servius,” he said abruptly. “Dawn will find me far from your plantation.”  

“My lord—” Servius lifted his hands in protest, but Conan waved his objections aside.  

“I know your loyalty and your courage. Both are above reproach. But if Valerius has usurped my throne, it would mean death for you to shelter me if you were discovered.”  

“I am not strong enough to defy him openly,” admitted Servius. “The fifty men-at-arms I could lead to battle would be but a handful of straws. You saw the ruins of Emilius Scavonus’ plantation?”  

Conan nodded, frowning darkly.  

“He was the strongest patrician in this province, as you know. He refused to give his allegiance to Valerius. The Nemedians burned him in the ruins of his own villa. After that, the rest of us saw the futility of resistance, especially as the people of Tarantia refused to fight. We submitted, and Valerius spared our lives, though he levied a tax upon us that will ruin many. But what could we do? We thought you were dead. Many of the barons had been slain, others taken prisoner. The army was shattered and scattered. You have no heir to take the crown. There was no one to lead us—”  

“Was there not Count Trocero of Poitain?” demanded Conan harshly.  

Servius spread his hands helplessly.  

“It is true that his general Prospero was in the field with a small army. Retreating before Amalric, he urged men to rally to his banner. But with your Majesty dead, men remembered old wars and civil brawls, and how Trocero and his Poitanians once rode through these provinces even as Amalric rides now, with torch and sword. The barons were jealous of Trocero. Some men—spies of Valerius, perhaps—shouted that the Count of Poitain intended to seize the crown for himself. Old sectional hatreds flared again. If we had had one man with dynastic blood in his veins, we would have crowned and followed him against Nemedia. But we had none.”  