"Then there is no more to be said!" exclaimed one of the others impatiently, speaking with a Nemedian accent. "Where is the headsman?"

As if summoned by the word, the dungeon door opened silently, and a great figure stood framed within it, like a black shadow from the underworld.

Albiona uttered a low, involuntary cry at the sight of that grim shape, and the others stared in silence for a moment, perhaps daunted by superstitious awe at the hooded figure. Through the coif, the eyes blazed like coals of blue fire, and as those eyes rested on each man in turn, a chill crept down his spine.

Then the tall Aquilonian roughly seized the girl and dragged her to the block. She screamed uncontrollably and fought hopelessly against him, frantic with terror, but he forced her to her knees and bent her yellow head down to the bloody block.

"Why do you delay, headsman?" he demanded angrily. "Perform your task!"

He was answered by a short, gusty boom of laughter, indescribably menacing. All in the dungeon froze where they stood, staring at the hooded shape—the two cloaked figures, the masked man bending over the girl, and the girl herself on her knees, twisting her imprisoned head to look upward.

"What means this unseemly mirth, dog?" demanded the Aquilonian uneasily.

The man in black tore the hood from his head and flung it to the ground. He set his back to the closed door and lifted the headsman’s axe.

"Do you know me, dogs?" he rumbled. "Do you know me?"

The breathless silence was broken by a scream.

"The king!" shrieked Albiona, wrenching herself free from the slackened grasp of her captor. "Oh, Mitra, the king!"

The three men stood like statues, then the Aquilonian started and spoke, like one doubting his own senses.

"Conan!" he gasped. "It is the king—or his ghost! What devil’s work is this?"

"Devil’s work to match devils!" mocked Conan, his lips laughing but hell flaming in his eyes. "Come, fall to, my gentlemen. You have your swords, and I this cleaver. Nay, I think this butcher’s tool suits the work at hand, my fair lords!"

"At him!" muttered the Aquilonian, drawing his sword. "It is Conan, and we must kill or be killed!"

Like men waking from a trance, the Nemedians drew their blades and rushed upon the king.

The headsman’s axe was not made for such work, but Conan wielded the heavy, clumsy weapon as lightly as a hatchet. His quickness of foot, as he constantly shifted position, thwarted their attempt to engage him all three at once.

He caught the first man’s sword on his axe-head and crushed in the wielder’s breast with a murderous counterstroke before the man could step back or parry. The remaining Nemedian, missing a savage swipe, had his brains dashed out before he could recover his balance, and an instant later the Aquilonian was backed into a corner, desperately parrying the crashing strokes that rained upon him, unable even to scream for help.

Suddenly Conan’s long left arm shot out and ripped the mask from the man’s head, revealing pallid features.

"Dog!" grated the king. "I thought I knew you. Traitor! Damned renegade! Even this base steel is too honorable for your foul head. Nay, die as thieves die!"

The axe fell in a devastating arc, and the Aquilonian cried out, collapsing to his knees, clutching the severed stump of his right arm from which blood spouted. It had been shorn away at the elbow, and the axe, unchecked in its descent, had gashed deeply into his side so that his entrails bulged out.

"Lie there and bleed to death," grunted Conan, casting the axe away in disgust. "Come, Countess!"

Stooping, he slashed the cords that bound her wrists and, lifting her as if she were a child, strode from the dungeon. She was sobbing hysterically, her arms thrown about his corded neck in a frenzied embrace.

"Easy, all," he muttered. "We’re not out of this yet. If we can reach the dungeon where the secret door opens on the stairs that lead to the tunnel—devil take it, they’ve heard that noise, even through these walls."

Down the corridor, arms clanged and the tramp and shouting of men echoed under the vaulted roof. A bent figure came hobbling swiftly along, lantern held high, its light shining full on Conan and the girl. With a curse, the Cimmerian sprang toward him, but the old watchman, abandoning both lantern and pike, scuttled away down the corridor, screeching for help at the top of his cracked voice. Deeper shouts answered him.

Conan turned swiftly and ran the other way. He was cut off from the dungeon with the secret lock and hidden door through which he had entered the Tower and by which he had hoped to leave, but he knew this grim building well. Before he was king, he had been imprisoned in it.

He turned off into a side passage and quickly emerged into another, broader corridor running parallel to the one he had come down, which was at the moment deserted. He followed it only a few yards before turning back down another side passage. This brought him again into the corridor he had left, but at a strategic point. A few feet farther up stood a heavy bolted door, and before it a bearded Nemedian in corselet and helmet, his back to Conan as he peered up the corridor toward the growing tumult and wildly waving lanterns.

Conan did not hesitate. Slipping the girl to the ground, he ran at the guard swiftly and silently, sword in hand. The man turned just as the king reached him, bawled in surprise and fright, and lifted his pike; but before he could bring the clumsy weapon into play, Conan brought his sword down on the fellow’s helmet with a force that would have felled an ox. Helmet and skull gave way together, and the guard crumpled to the floor.

In an instant Conan had drawn the massive bolt that barred the door—too heavy for an ordinary man to move—and called hastily to Albiona, who staggered to him. Catching her up unceremoniously with one arm, he bore her through the door and into the outer darkness.