They had entered a narrow alley, black as pitch, walled by the Tower on one side and the sheer stone backs of a row of buildings on the other. Conan, hurrying through the darkness as swiftly as he dared, felt along the latter wall for doors or windows but found none.

The great door clanged open behind them, and men poured out, torches gleaming on breastplates and naked swords. They glared about, bellowing, unable to pierce the darkness their torches illuminated for only a few feet in any direction, then rushed down the alley at random—heading opposite to the way Conan and Albiona had gone.

“They’ll learn their mistake soon enough,” he muttered, quickening his pace. “If we can find a crack in this infernal wall—damn! The street watch!”

Ahead, a faint glow appeared where the alley opened into a narrow street, and he saw dim figures looming against it, steel glinting faintly. It was indeed the street watch, investigating the noise that had echoed down the alley.

“Who goes there?” they shouted, and Conan ground his teeth at the hated Nemedian accent.

“Keep behind me,” he ordered the girl. “We’ve got to cut our way through before the prison guards come back and trap us between them.”

Grasping his sword, he charged straight at the oncoming figures. The advantage of surprise was his. He could see them, limned against the distant glow, while they could not see him coming out of the black depths of the alley. He was among them before they knew it, striking with the silent fury of a wounded lion.

His only chance lay in hacking through before they could gather their wits. But there were half a score of them, in full mail—hard-bitten veterans of the border wars, whose battle instincts could replace stunned senses. Three were down before they realized only one man was attacking them, but their reaction was instant. The clangor of steel rose deafeningly, sparks flying as Conan’s sword crashed on basinet and hauberk. He could see better than they, and in the dim light his swiftly moving figure was an uncertain mark. Flailing swords cut empty air or glanced from his blade, and when he struck, it was with the fury and certainty of a hurricane.

But behind him came the shouts of the prison guards, returning up the alley at a run, and still the mailed figures before him barred his way with a bristling wall of steel. In an instant the guards would be on his back. In desperation he redoubled his blows, flailing like a smith at his anvil—then suddenly became aware of a diversion. Out of nowhere behind the watchmen rose a score of black figures, and there came the sound of murderously driven blows. Steel glinted in the gloom, and men cried out, struck mortally from behind. In an instant the alley was littered with writhing forms. A dark, cloaked shape sprang toward Conan, who heaved up his sword, catching a gleam of steel in the right hand. But the other hand was extended empty, and a voice hissed urgently, “This way, your Majesty! Quickly!”

With a muttered oath of surprise, Conan caught up Albiona in one massive arm and followed his unknown rescuer. He was not inclined to hesitate, with thirty prison guardsmen closing in behind him.

Surrounded by the mysterious figures, he hurried down the alley, carrying the countess as if she were a child. He could tell nothing of his rescuers except that they wore dark cloaks and hoods. Doubt and suspicion crossed his mind, but they had struck down his enemies, and he saw no better course than to follow.

As if sensing his doubt, the leader touched his arm lightly and said, “Fear not, King Conan; we are your loyal subjects.” The voice was unfamiliar, but the accent was Aquilonian, from the central provinces.

Behind them, the guards were yelling as they stumbled over the bodies in the mud, then came pelting vengefully down the alley, seeing the vague dark mass moving between them and the light of the distant street. But the hooded men turned suddenly toward what seemed a blank wall, and Conan saw a door gape there. He muttered a curse. He had traversed that alley by day, in times past, and had never noticed a door there. But through it they went, and the door closed behind them with the click of a lock. The sound was not reassuring, but his guides hurried him on, moving with the precision of familiarity, guiding Conan with a hand at each elbow. It was like passing through a tunnel, and Conan felt Albiona’s lithe limbs trembling in his arms. Then, somewhere ahead, an opening became faintly visible—a somewhat less black arch in the blackness—and through this they filed.

After that came a bewildering succession of dim courts, shadowy alleys, and winding corridors, all traversed in utter silence, until at last they emerged into a broad, lighted chamber, the location of which Conan could not even guess, for their devious route had confounded even his primitive sense of direction.

10 - A COIN FROM ACHERON  
A Coin from Acheron

Not all his guides entered the chamber. When the door closed, Conan saw only one man standing before him—a slim figure, masked in a black cloak with a hood. The man threw it back, revealing a pale oval face with calm, delicately chiseled features.

The king set Albiona on her feet, but she still clung to him, staring apprehensively about. The chamber was large, with marble walls partly covered by black velvet hangings and thick, rich carpets on the mosaic floor, bathed in the soft golden glow of bronze lamps.

Conan instinctively laid a hand on his hilt. There was blood on his hand, blood clotted about the mouth of his scabbard, for he had sheathed his blade without cleansing it.

“Where are we?” he demanded.

The stranger answered with a low, profound bow in which the suspicious king could detect no trace of irony.

“In the temple of Asura, your Majesty.”

Albiona cried out faintly and clung closer to Conan, staring fearfully at the black arched doors, as if expecting some grisly shape of darkness to enter.

“Fear not, my lady,” said their guide. “There is nothing here to harm you, despite vulgar superstition to the contrary. If your monarch was sufficiently convinced of the innocence of our faith to protect us from the persecution of the ignorant, then surely one of his subjects need have no apprehension.”