"Who are you?" demanded Conan.  

"I am Hadrathus, priest of Asura. One of my followers recognized you when you entered the city and brought word to me."  

Conan grunted profanely.  

"Do not fear that others have discovered your identity," Hadrathus assured him. "Your disguise would have deceived any but a follower of Asura, whose faith teaches us to look beneath the veil of illusion. You were followed to the watchtower, and some of my people entered the tunnel to aid you if you returned that way. Others, myself among them, surrounded the tower. And now, King Conan, it is yours to command. Here in the temple of Asura, you are still king."  

"Why should you risk your lives for me?" asked the king.  

"You were our friend when you sat upon your throne," answered Hadrathus. "You protected us when the priests of Mitra sought to scourge us from the land."  

Conan looked about him curiously. He had never before visited the temple of Asura, nor had he been certain that such a temple even existed in Tarantia. The priests of that faith were known for concealing their sanctuaries with remarkable skill. The worship of Mitra was overwhelmingly predominant in the Hyborian nations, yet the cult of Asura persisted despite official bans and popular hatred. Conan had heard dark tales of hidden temples where thick smoke rose endlessly from black altars, where kidnapped victims were said to be sacrificed before a great coiled serpent whose monstrous head swayed forever in the haunted shadows.  

Persecution had driven the followers of Asura to hide their temples with cunning art and to shroud their rituals in secrecy; and that secrecy, in turn, bred monstrous suspicions and tales of evil.  

But Conan possessed the broad tolerance of the barbarian. He had refused to persecute the followers of Asura or to allow the people to do so on no better evidence than rumor and unproven accusation. "If they are black magicians," he had said, "how will they suffer you to harry them? If they are not, there is no evil in them. Crom’s devils! Let men worship what gods they will."  

At Hadrathus’s respectful invitation, he seated himself on an ivory chair and motioned Albiona to another, but she preferred to sit on a golden stool at his feet, pressing close against his thigh as if seeking safety in his presence. Like most orthodox followers of Mitra, she felt an instinctive horror of the cult of Asura, instilled in her childhood by wild tales of human sacrifice and monstrous gods shambling through shadowed temples.  

Hadrathus stood before them, his uncovered head bowed.  

"What is your wish, your Majesty?"  

"Food first," he grunted, and the priest struck a golden gong with a silver wand.  

Scarcely had the mellow notes faded when four hooded figures entered through a curtained doorway, bearing a great four-legged silver platter laden with steaming dishes and crystal vessels. They set it before Conan, bowed low, and withdrew. The king wiped his hands on the damask and smacked his lips with unconcealed relish.  

"Beware, your Majesty!" whispered Albiona. "These folk eat human flesh!"  

"I’ll stake my kingdom this is nothing but honest roast beef," answered Conan. "Come, lass, eat! You must be hungry after prison fare."  

Thus encouraged, and reassured by the example of one whose word was law to her, the countess complied and ate ravenously though daintily, while her liege lord tore into the meat and guzzled the wine with as much gusto as if he had not already eaten once that night.  

"You priests are shrewd, Hadrathus," he said, holding a great beef bone in his hands and speaking through a mouthful of meat. "I’d welcome your service in my campaign to regain my kingdom."  

Slowly Hadrathus shook his head, and Conan slammed the bone down on the table in a gust of impatient wrath.  

"Crom’s devils! What ails the men of Aquilonia? First Servius—now you! Can you do nothing but wag your idiotic heads when I speak of ousting these dogs?"  

Hadrathus sighed and answered slowly, "My lord, it is ill to say, and I would gladly say otherwise. But the freedom of Aquilonia is at an end. Nay, the freedom of the whole world may be at an end! Age follows age in the history of the world, and now we enter an age of horror and slavery, as it was long ago."  

"What do you mean?" demanded the king uneasily.  

Hadrathus sank into a chair, resting his elbows on his thighs and staring at the floor.  

"It is not only the rebellious lords of Aquilonia and the armies of Nemedia that are arrayed against you," he said. "It is sorcery—grisly black magic from the grim youth of the world. An awful shape has risen out of the shadows of the past, and none can stand before it."  

"What do you mean?" Conan repeated.  

"I speak of Xaltotun of Acheron, who died three thousand years ago, yet walks the earth today."  

Conan was silent, while in his mind floated an image—the bearded face of calm, inhuman beauty. Again he was haunted by a sense of uneasy familiarity. Acheron—the very sound of the word stirred instinctive echoes of memory and ancient dread.  

"Acheron," he repeated. "Xaltotun of Acheron—man, are you mad? Acheron has been a myth for more centuries than I can remember. I’ve often wondered if it ever existed at all."  

"It was a black reality," answered Hadrathus, "an empire of sorcerers steeped in evil now long forgotten. It was finally overthrown by the Hyborian tribes of the West. The wizards of Acheron practiced foul necromancy—thaumaturgy of the darkest kind—grisly magic taught them by devils. And of all the sorcerers of that accursed kingdom, none was greater than Xaltotun of Python."  

"Then how was he ever overthrown?" asked Conan skeptically.  

"By some means, a source of cosmic power which he jealously guarded was stolen and turned against him. That source has now been returned to him, and he is invincible."  

Albiona, clutching the headsman’s black cloak about her, stared from the priest to the king, not understanding their words. Conan shook his head angrily.  