It was in the form of a great jewel, like a ruby, but pulsing with a blinding fire no ruby had ever known. It glowed like living flame—  

But Conan suddenly sprang up and smote his right fist into his left palm with a thunderclap.  

“Crom!” he roared. “What a fool I’ve been! The Heart of Ahriman! The heart of my kingdom! ‘Find the heart of my kingdom,’ Zelata said. By Ymir, it was the jewel I saw in the green smoke—the jewel Tarascus stole from Xaltotun while he lay in the sleep of the black lotus!”  

Hadrathus was on his feet as well, his calm falling from him like a garment.  

“What are you saying? The Heart stolen from Xaltotun?”  

“Aye!” Conan boomed. “Tarascus feared Xaltotun and wanted to cripple his power, which he thought resided in the Heart. Maybe he believed the wizard would die if the Heart were lost. By Crom—ahhh!” With a savage grimace of disappointment and disgust, he dropped his clenched hand to his side.  

“I forgot. Tarascus gave it to a thief to throw into the sea. By this time the fellow must be almost to Kordava. Before I can follow him, he’ll take ship and consign the Heart to the bottom of the ocean.”  

“The sea will not hold it!” exclaimed Hadrathus, quivering with excitement. “Xaltotun would have cast it into the ocean long ago had he not known that the first storm would carry it ashore. But on what unknown beach might it not land!”  

“Well,” Conan said, recovering some of his resilient confidence, “there’s no assurance the thief will throw it away. If I know thieves—and I should, for I was a thief in Zamora in my youth—he won’t throw it away. He’ll sell it to some rich trader. By Crom!” He strode back and forth, his excitement growing. “It’s worth looking for! Zelata bade me find the heart of my kingdom, and all else she showed me proved true. Can it be that the power to conquer Xaltotun lies in that crimson bauble?”  

“Aye! My head upon it!” cried Hadrathus, his face alight with fervor, his eyes blazing, his fists clenched. “With it in our hands we can defy the powers of Xaltotun! I swear it! If we can recover it, we have an even chance of reclaiming your crown and driving the invaders from our gates. It is not the swords of Nemedia that Aquilonia fears, but the black arts of Xaltotun.”  

Conan looked at him for a space, impressed by the priest’s fire.  

“It’s like a quest in a nightmare,” he said at last. “Yet your words echo Zelata’s, and all else she said was truth. I’ll seek this jewel.”  

“It holds the destiny of Aquilonia,” said Hadrathus with conviction. “I will send men with you—”  

“Nay!” exclaimed the king impatiently, unwilling to be hampered by priests on his quest, however skilled in esoteric arts. “This is a task for a fighting man. I go alone. First to Poitain, where I’ll leave Albiona with Trocero. Then to Kordava, and to the sea beyond, if necessary. It may be that even if the thief intends to carry out Tarascus’s order, he’ll have some difficulty finding an outbound ship at this time of year.”  

“And if you find the Heart,” cried Hadrathus, “I will prepare the way for your conquest. Before you return to Aquilonia, I will spread the word through secret channels that you live and are returning with a magic stronger than Xaltotun’s. I will have men ready to rise when you return. They will rise if they are assured they will be protected from Xaltotun’s black arts.  

“And I will aid you on your journey.”  

He rose and struck a gong.  

“A secret tunnel leads from beneath this temple to a place outside the city wall. You shall go to Poitain on a pilgrim’s boat. None will dare molest you.”  

“As you will.” With a definite purpose in mind, Conan was afire with impatience and dynamic energy. “Only let it be done swiftly.”  

       *       *       *       *       *  

Meanwhile, events were moving swiftly elsewhere in the city. A breathless messenger burst into the palace where Valerius was amusing himself with his dancing girls, and, throwing himself to one knee, gasped out a garbled story of a bloody prison break and the escape of a beautiful captive. He also bore the news that Count Thespius, entrusted with the execution of Albiona’s sentence, was dying and begging for a word with Valerius before he passed.  

Hurriedly cloaking himself, Valerius followed the man through winding corridors and came to a chamber where Thespius lay. There was no doubt the count was dying; bloody froth bubbled from his lips with each shuddering gasp. His severed arm had been bound to staunch the flow, but even without that, the gash in his side was mortal.  

Alone in the chamber with the dying man, Valerius swore softly.  

“By Mitra, I had believed only one man ever lived who could strike such a blow.”  

“Valerius!” gasped the dying man. “He lives! Conan lives!”  

“What are you saying?” exclaimed Valerius.  

“I swear by Mitra!” gurgled Thespius, choking on the blood that gushed to his lips. “It was he who carried off Albiona! He is not dead—no phantom come back from hell to haunt us. He is flesh and blood, and more terrible than ever. The alley behind the tower is full of dead men. Beware, Valerius—he has come back—to slay us all—”  

A strong shudder shook the blood-smeared figure, and Count Thespius went limp.  

Valerius frowned down at the dead man, cast a swift glance about the empty chamber, then stepped quickly to the door and flung it open. The messenger and a group of Nemedian guardsmen stood several paces down the corridor. Valerius muttered something that might have indicated satisfaction.  

“Have all the gates been closed?” he demanded.  

“Yes, your Majesty.”  

“Triple the guards at each. Let no one enter or leave the city without the strictest investigation. Set men to scour the streets and search the quarters. A very valuable prisoner has escaped, aided by an Aquilonian rebel. Did any of you recognize the man?”  