'No, your Majesty. The old watchman caught a glimpse of him, but could only say that he was a giant, clad in the black garb of the executioner, whose naked body we found in an empty cell.'

'He is a dangerous man,' said Valerius. 'Take no chances with him. You all know the Countess Albiona. Search for her, and if you find her, kill her and her companion instantly. Do not try to take them alive.'

Returning to his palace chamber, Valerius summoned before him four men of curious and alien aspect. They were tall and gaunt, with yellowish skin and expressionless faces. They were almost identical in appearance, dressed alike in long black robes beneath which their sandaled feet were barely visible. Their features were shadowed by their hoods. They stood before Valerius with their hands folded in their wide sleeves. Valerius regarded them without pleasure. In his far travels he had encountered many strange races.

'When I found you starving in the Khitan jungles,' he said abruptly, 'exiles from your kingdom, you swore to serve me. You have served me well enough, in your abominable way. One more service I require, and then I will release you from your oath.

'Conan the Cimmerian, king of Aquilonia, still lives, in spite of Xaltotun’s sorcery—or perhaps because of it. I know not. The dark mind of that resurrected devil is too devious and subtle for a mortal man to fathom. But while Conan lives, I am not safe. The people accepted me as the lesser of two evils when they thought he was dead. Let him reappear, and the throne will be rocking beneath me in revolution before I can lift my hand.

'Perhaps my allies mean to use him to replace me, if they decide I have served my purpose. I do not know. I do know that this world is too small for two kings of Aquilonia. Seek the Cimmerian. Use your uncanny talents to ferret him out wherever he hides or runs. He has many friends in Tarantia. He had help when he carried off Albiona. It took more than one man, even such a man as Conan, to wreak all that slaughter in the alley outside the tower. But no more. Take your staffs and strike his trail. Where that trail will lead you, I know not. But find him! And when you find him—slay him!'

The four Khitans bowed together and, still silent, turned and padded noiselessly from the chamber.

11 - SWORDS OF THE SOUTH  
Swords of the South

Dawn rising over the distant hills shone on the sails of a small craft drifting down the river that curves to within a mile of Tarantia’s walls and then loops southward like a great shining serpent. This boat differed from the ordinary craft plying the broad Khorotas—fishing boats and merchant barges loaded with rich goods. It was long and slender, with a high curving prow, black as ebony, with white skulls painted along the gunwales. Amidships rose a small cabin, its windows tightly masked. Other craft gave the ominously painted boat a wide berth, for it was clearly one of those “pilgrim boats” that carried a lifeless follower of Asura on his last mysterious pilgrimage southward, to where, far beyond the Poitanian mountains, a river flowed at last into the blue ocean. In that cabin undoubtedly lay the corpse of the departed worshipper. All men were familiar with the sight of those gloomy craft, and even the most fanatical votary of Mitra would not dare touch or interfere with their somber voyages.

Where the ultimate destination lay, men did not know. Some said Stygia; some, a nameless island beyond the horizon; others claimed it was in the glamorous and mysterious land of Vendhya, where the dead came home at last. But none knew for certain. They only knew that when a follower of Asura died, the corpse went southward down the great river in a black boat rowed by a giant slave, and neither boat nor corpse nor slave was ever seen again—unless, indeed, certain dark tales were true, and it was always the same slave who rowed the boats southward.

The man who propelled this particular boat was as huge and brown as the others, though closer scrutiny might have revealed that his hue was the result of carefully applied pigments. He was clad in a leather loincloth and sandals, and he handled the long sweep and oars with unusual skill and power. But none approached the grim boat closely, for it was well known that the followers of Asura were accursed, and that these pilgrim boats were laden with dark magic. So men swung their boats wide and muttered incantations as the dark craft slid past, never dreaming that they were thus aiding the flight of their king and the Countess Albiona.

It was a strange journey in that black, slender craft down the great river for nearly two hundred miles, to where the Khorotas swings eastward, skirting the Poitanian mountains. Like a dream, the ever-changing panorama glided past. During the day Albiona lay patiently in the little cabin, as still as the corpse she pretended to be. Only late at night, after the pleasure boats with their fair occupants lounging on silken cushions in the flare of torchlight had left the river, and before dawn brought the hurrying fishing boats, did the girl venture out. Then she held the long sweep, cunningly bound in place by ropes to aid her, while Conan snatched a few hours of sleep. But the king needed little rest. The fire of his purpose drove him relentlessly, and his powerful frame was equal to the grinding test. Without halt or pause they drove southward.

So down the river they fled, through nights when the flowing current mirrored a million stars, and through days of golden sunlight, leaving winter behind them as they sped southward. They passed cities in the night, above which throbbed and pulsed the reflection of myriad lights, lordly river villas, and fertile groves. At last the blue mountains of Poitain rose before them, tier upon tier, like ramparts of the gods, and the great river, swerving from those turreted cliffs, swept thunderously through the marching hills with many a rapid and foaming cataract.

* * * * *

Conan scanned the shoreline closely, then swung the long sweep and headed inshore at a point where a neck of land jutted into the water, and fir trees grew in a curiously symmetrical ring about a gray, strangely shaped rock.