12 - THE FANG OF THE DRAGON  
The Fang of the Dragon  

At dawn, Conan waded his horse across the shallows of the Alimane and struck the wide caravan trail that ran southeastward. Behind him, on the farther bank, Trocero sat his horse silently at the head of his steel-clad knights, the crimson leopard of Poitain floating its long folds above him in the morning breeze. Silently they sat, those dark-haired men in shining steel, until the figure of their king vanished into the blue distance that whitened toward sunrise.  

Conan rode a great black stallion, a gift from Trocero. He no longer wore the armor of Aquilonia. His harness marked him as a veteran of the Free Companies, men of all races. His headpiece was a plain morion, dented and battered. The leather and mail mesh of his hauberk were worn and shiny from many campaigns, and the scarlet cloak flowing carelessly from his mailed shoulders was tattered and stained. He looked every inch the hired fighting man who had known all the turns of fortune—plunder and wealth one day, an empty purse and a tight belt the next.  

And more than looking the part, he felt it. Old memories stirred within him—the resurgence of the wild, mad, glorious days before his feet were set on the imperial path, when he was a wandering mercenary, roistering, brawling, guzzling, adventuring, with no thought for the morrow and no desire save for sparkling ale, red lips, and a keen sword to swing on the battlefields of the world.  

Unconsciously he reverted to the old ways; a new swagger crept into his bearing, into the way he sat his horse. Half-forgotten oaths rose naturally to his lips, and as he rode he hummed old songs he had once roared in chorus with reckless companions in many a tavern, on many a dusty road or bloody field.  

It was an unquiet land through which he rode. The cavalry companies that usually patrolled the river, alert for raids out of Poitain, were nowhere to be seen. Internal strife had left the borders unguarded. The long white road stretched bare from horizon to horizon. No laden camel trains, rumbling wagons, or lowing herds moved along it now—only occasional groups of horsemen in leather and steel, hawk-faced, hard-eyed men who kept together and rode warily. They swept Conan with searching gazes but rode on, for the solitary rider’s harness promised no plunder, only hard strokes.  

Villages lay in ashes and deserted, the fields and meadows idle. Only the boldest dared ride the roads these days, and the native population had been decimated by civil wars and raids from across the river. In more peaceful times the road had been thronged with merchants riding from Poitain to Messantia in Argos or back again. But now they found it wiser to follow the road that led east through Poitain and then turned south across Argos. It was longer, but safer. Only the most reckless would risk life and goods on this road through Zingara.  

By night the southern horizon was fringed with flame, and by day straggling pillars of smoke drifted upward. In the cities and plains to the south, men were dying, thrones were toppling, and castles going up in flames. Conan felt the old tug of the professional fighting man—to turn his horse and plunge into the fray, the pillaging and looting as in the days of old. Why should he toil to regain the rule of a people who had already forgotten him? Why chase a will-o’-the-wisp, why pursue a crown lost forever? Why not seek forgetfulness, lose himself again in the red tides of war and rapine that had so often engulfed him? Could he not carve out another kingdom for himself? The world was entering an age of iron, an age of war and imperial ambition; some strong man might well rise above the ruins of nations as a supreme conqueror. Why not he? So his familiar devil whispered in his ear, and the phantoms of his lawless, bloody past crowded upon him. But he did not turn aside. He rode onward, following a quest that grew dimmer and dimmer as he advanced, until it seemed at times that he pursued a dream that never was.  

He pushed the black stallion as hard as he dared, but the long white road still lay bare before him, stretching from horizon to horizon. Zorathus had a long start, but Conan rode steadily on, knowing he traveled faster than burdened merchants could. And so he came to the castle of Count Valbroso, perched like a vulture’s eyrie on a bare hill overlooking the road.  

* * * * *  

Valbroso rode down with his men-at-arms—a lean, dark man with glittering eyes and a predatory beak of a nose. He wore black plate armor and was followed by thirty spearmen, black-mustached hawks of the border wars, as avaricious and ruthless as himself. Of late, the toll of caravans had been slim, and Valbroso cursed the civil wars that stripped the roads of their fat traffic, even as he blessed them for the freedom they gave him with his neighbors.  

He had not hoped for much from the solitary rider glimpsed from his tower, but all was grist for his mill. With a practiced eye he took in Conan’s worn mail and dark, scarred face, and his conclusions matched those of the riders who had passed the Cimmerian on the road—an empty purse and a ready blade.  

“Who are you, knave?” he demanded.  

“A mercenary, riding for Argos,” answered Conan. “What matter names?”  

“You’re riding the wrong way for a Free Companion,” grunted Valbroso. “Southward the fighting is good—and the plundering better. Join my company. You won’t go hungry. The road’s bare of fat merchants to strip, but I mean to take my rogues southward to sell our swords to whichever side seems strongest.”  

Conan did not reply at once, knowing that if he refused outright, Valbroso’s men-at-arms might attack him on the spot. Before he could decide, the Zingaran spoke again.  

“You rogues of the Free Companies always know tricks to make men talk. I have a prisoner—the last merchant I caught, by Mitra, and the only one I’ve seen for a week—and the knave is stubborn. He has an iron box whose secret defies us, and I’ve been unable to persuade him to open it. By Ishtar, I thought I knew every mode of persuasion, but perhaps you, as a veteran Free Companion, know some that I do not. At any rate, come with me and see what you can do.”  