Valbroso’s words instantly decided Conan. That sounded very much like Zorathus. Conan did not know the merchant, but any man stubborn enough to attempt the Zingaran road in times like these would likely be stubborn enough to defy torture.  

He fell in beside Valbroso and rode up the winding road to the top of the hill where the gaunt castle stood. As a man-at-arms he should have ridden behind the count, but habit made him careless, and Valbroso paid no heed. Years of life on the border had taught the count that the frontier was not the royal court. He understood the independence of the mercenaries, behind whose swords many a king had trodden the throne-path.  

A dry moat, half filled with debris in places, surrounded the castle. They clattered across the drawbridge and through the arched gate. Behind them the portcullis fell with a sullen clang. They entered a bare courtyard, overgrown with straggling grass, with a well in the center. Shacks for the men-at-arms leaned against the bailey wall, and women—slatternly or gaudily adorned—peered from the doors. Fighting-men in rusty mail tossed dice on the flagstones under the arches. It looked more like a bandit’s hold than the castle of a nobleman.  

Valbroso dismounted and motioned for Conan to follow. They passed through a doorway and along a vaulted corridor, where they met a scarred, hard-faced man in mail descending a stone staircase—evidently the captain of the guard.  

“How, Beloso,” said Valbroso. “Has he spoken?”  

“He is stubborn,” muttered Beloso, shooting a suspicious glance at Conan.  

Valbroso swore and stamped furiously up the winding stair, followed by Conan and the captain. As they climbed, the groans of a man in mortal agony became audible. Valbroso’s torture chamber was high above the court instead of in a dungeon below. In that chamber, where a gaunt, hairy brute in leather breeks squatted gnawing a beef bone, stood the machines of torment—racks, boots, hooks, and all the devices the human mind has conceived to tear flesh, break bones, and rend veins and ligaments.  

On a rack a man was stretched naked, and one glance told Conan he was dying. The unnatural elongation of his limbs and body revealed unhinged joints and unspeakable ruptures. He was dark, with an intelligent, aquiline face and quick eyes now glazed and bloodshot with pain. The dew of agony glistened on his brow, and his lips were drawn back from blackened gums.  

“There is the box.” Valbroso viciously kicked a small but heavy iron chest that stood nearby. It was intricately carved with tiny skulls and writhing dragons curiously intertwined, but Conan saw no catch or hasp that might unlock the lid. Marks of fire, axe, sledge, and chisel showed on it only as scratches.  

“This is the dog’s treasure box,” said Valbroso angrily. “All men of the south know of Zorathus and his iron chest. Mitra knows what lies within it. But he will not yield its secret.”  

Zorathus! It was true, then—the man he sought lay before him. Conan’s heart beat suffocatingly as he leaned over the writhing form, though he betrayed no sign of his painful eagerness.  

“Ease those ropes, knave!” he ordered the torturer harshly, and Valbroso and his captain stared. In the forgetfulness of the moment Conan had used his imperial tone, and the brute in leather instinctively obeyed the knife-edge of command in that voice. He eased the ropes gradually, for a sudden slackening would have been as great a torment to the torn joints as further stretching.  

Catching up a vessel of wine that stood nearby, Conan placed the rim to the wretch’s lips. Zorathus gulped spasmodically, the liquid spilling over his heaving chest.  

Into the bloodshot eyes came a gleam of recognition, and the froth-smeared lips parted. From them issued a racking whimper in the Kothic tongue.  

“Is this death, then? Is the long agony ended? For this is King Conan who died at Valkia, and I am among the dead.”  

“You’re not dead,” said Conan. “But you’re dying. You’ll be tortured no more—I’ll see to that. But I can’t help you further. Before you die, tell me how to open your iron box.”  

“My iron box,” mumbled Zorathus in delirious, broken phrases. “The chest forged in unholy fires among the flaming mountains of Khrosha; the metal no chisel can cut. How many treasures it has borne across the width and breadth of the world! But none like the treasure it now holds.”  

“Tell me how to open it,” urged Conan. “It can do you no good, and it may aid me.”  

“Aye, you are Conan,” muttered the Kothian. “I have seen you sitting on your throne in the great public hall of Tarantia, with your crown on your head and the scepter in your hand. But you are dead—you died at Valkia. And so I know my own end is at hand.”  

“What does the dog say?” demanded Valbroso impatiently, not understanding Kothic. “Will he tell us how to open the box?”  

As if the voice roused a spark of life in the twisted breast, Zorathus rolled his bloodshot eyes toward the speaker.  

“Only Valbroso will I tell,” he gasped in Zingaran. “Death is upon me. Lean close, Valbroso!”  

The count did so, his dark face lit with avarice; behind him his saturnine captain, Beloso, crowded nearer.  

“Press the seven skulls on the rim, one after another,” gasped Zorathus. “Then press the head of the dragon that writhes across the lid. Then press the sphere in the dragon’s claws. That will release the secret catch.”  

“Quick, the box!” cried Valbroso with an oath.  

Conan lifted it and set it on a dais, and Valbroso shouldered him aside.  

“Let me open it!” cried Beloso, stepping forward.  

Valbroso cursed him back, greed blazing in his black eyes.  

“None but me shall open it!” he shouted.  