Conan, whose hand had instinctively gone to his hilt, glanced at Zorathus. The man’s eyes were glazed and bloodshot, yet fixed on Valbroso with burning intensity. Was there the shadow of a grim, twisted smile on the dying man’s lips? Not until the merchant knew he was dying had he given up the secret. Conan turned to watch Valbroso, even as the dying man watched him.  

Along the rim of the lid, seven skulls were carved among intertwining branches of strange trees. An inlaid dragon writhed across the top amid ornate arabesques. Valbroso pressed the skulls in fumbling haste, and as he jammed his thumb down on the carved head of the dragon, he swore sharply and snatched his hand away, shaking it in irritation.  

“A sharp point on the carvings,” he snarled. “I’ve pricked my thumb.”  

He pressed the gold ball clutched in the dragon’s talons, and the lid flew abruptly open. Their eyes were dazzled by a golden flame. It seemed to their dazed minds that the carved box was full of glowing fire that spilled over the rim and dripped through the air in quivering flakes. Beloso cried out, and Valbroso sucked in his breath. Conan stood speechless, his mind ensnared by the blaze.  

“Mitra, what a jewel!” Valbroso’s hand dived into the chest and came out with a great, pulsing crimson sphere that filled the room with a lambent glow. In its glare, Valbroso looked like a corpse. And the dying man on the loosened rack laughed wildly and suddenly.  

“Fool!” he screamed. “The jewel is yours! I give you death with it! The scratch on your thumb—look at the dragon’s head, Valbroso!”  

They all wheeled and stared. Something tiny and dully gleaming stood up from the gaping, carved mouth.  

“The dragon’s fang!” shrieked Zorathus. “Steeped in the venom of the black Stygian scorpion! Fool, fool to open the box of Zorathus with your naked hand! Death! You are a dead man now!”  

And with bloody foam on his lips, he died.  

Valbroso staggered, crying out. “Ah, Mitra, I burn!” he shrieked. “My veins race with liquid fire! My joints are bursting asunder! Death! Death!” He reeled and crashed headlong. There was an instant of awful convulsions, in which his limbs twisted into hideous, unnatural positions, and then, in that posture, the man froze—his glassy eyes staring sightlessly upward, his lips drawn back from blackened gums.  

“Dead!” muttered Conan, stooping to pick up the jewel where it had rolled from Valbroso’s rigid hand. It lay on the floor like a quivering pool of sunset fire.  

“Dead!” echoed Beloso, madness in his eyes. Then he moved.  

Conan was caught off guard, his eyes dazzled, his brain dazed by the blaze of the great gem. He did not realize Beloso’s intent until something crashed with terrible force upon his helmet. The glow of the jewel was splashed with redder flame, and he went to his knees under the blow.  

He heard a rush of feet, a bellow of ox-like agony. Stunned but not wholly senseless, he realized that Beloso had seized the iron box and smashed it down on his head as he stooped. Only his basinet had saved his skull. He staggered up, drawing his sword, trying to shake the dimness from his eyes. The room swam before his dizzy gaze. But the door was open, and fleet footsteps were dwindling down the winding stair. On the floor, the brutish torturer was gasping out his life with a great gash under his breast. And the Heart of Ahriman was gone.  

Conan reeled out of the chamber, sword in hand, blood streaming down his face from under his burganet. He ran drunkenly down the steps, hearing a clang of steel in the courtyard below, shouts, then the frantic drum of hoofs. Rushing into the bailey, he saw the men-at-arms milling about in confusion while women screeched. The postern gate stood open, and a soldier lay across his pike with his head split. Horses, still bridled and saddled, ran neighing about the court—Conan’s black stallion among them.  

“He’s mad!” howled a woman, wringing her hands as she rushed about. “He came out of the castle like a mad dog, hewing right and left! Beloso’s mad! Where’s Lord Valbroso?”  

“Which way did he go?” roared Conan.  

All turned and stared at the stranger’s blood-stained face and naked sword.  

“Through the postern!” shrilled a woman, pointing eastward, and another bawled, “Who is this rogue?”  

“Beloso has killed Valbroso!” yelled Conan, leaping and seizing the stallion’s mane as the men-at-arms advanced uncertainly on him. A wild outcry burst forth at his words, but their reaction was exactly as he had anticipated. Instead of closing the gates to take him prisoner or pursuing the fleeing slayer to avenge their lord, they were thrown into even greater confusion. Wolves bound together only by fear of Valbroso, they owed no allegiance to the castle or to each other.  

Swords clashed in the courtyard, and women screamed. In the midst of it all, none noticed Conan as he shot through the postern gate and thundered down the hill. The wide plain spread before him, and beyond the hill the caravan road divided: one branch ran south, the other east. On the eastern road he saw another rider, bending low and spurring hard. The plain swam before Conan’s gaze, the sunlight a thick red haze, and he reeled in his saddle, grasping the flowing mane with one hand. Blood rained on his mail, but grimly he urged the stallion on.  

Behind him, smoke began to pour from the castle on the hill where the count’s body lay forgotten beside that of his prisoner. The sun was setting; against a lurid red sky, the two black figures fled.  

The stallion was not fresh, but neither was the horse ridden by Beloso. Yet the great beast responded mightily, drawing on deep reserves of strength. Why the Zingaran fled from one pursuer, Conan did not tax his bruised brain to guess. Perhaps unreasoning panic rode Beloso, born of the madness that lurked in that blazing jewel. The sun was gone; the white road was a dim glimmer through a ghostly twilight fading into purple gloom far ahead of him.  