The stallion panted, laboring hard. The country was changing in the gathering dusk. Bare plains gave way to clumps of oaks and alders. Low hills rose in the distance. Stars began to blink out. The stallion gasped and reeled in his course. But ahead loomed a dense wood that stretched to the hills on the horizon, and between it and himself Conan glimpsed the dim form of the fugitive. He urged on the distressed stallion, for he saw that he was overtaking his prey, yard by yard. Above the pounding of hoofs a strange cry rose from the shadows, but neither pursuer nor pursued gave heed.

As they swept in under the branches that overhung the road, they were almost side by side. A fierce cry burst from Conan’s lips as his sword went up; a pale oval face turned toward him, a sword gleamed in a half-seen hand, and Beloso echoed the cry—and then the weary stallion, with a lurch and a groan, missed his footing in the shadows and went heels over head, hurling his dazed rider from the saddle. Conan’s throbbing head struck a stone, and the stars were blotted out in a thicker night.

* * * * *

How long Conan lay senseless he never knew. His first sensation of returning consciousness was that of being dragged by one arm over rough, stony ground and through dense underbrush. Then he was thrown carelessly down, and perhaps the jolt brought back his senses.

His helmet was gone, his head ached abominably, he felt a wave of nausea, and blood clotted thickly among his black locks. But with the vitality of a wild thing, life and consciousness surged back into him, and he became aware of his surroundings.

A broad red moon was shining through the trees, by which he knew it was long after midnight. He had lain senseless for hours—long enough to have recovered from that terrible blow Beloso had dealt him, as well as the fall that had rendered him unconscious. His brain felt clearer than it had during that mad ride after the fugitive.

He was not lying beside the white road, he noticed with a start of surprise, as his surroundings began to register on his senses. The road was nowhere in sight. He lay on the grassy earth in a small glade hemmed in by a black wall of tree trunks and tangled branches. His face and hands were scratched and lacerated as if he had been dragged through brambles. Shifting his body, he looked about him—and then started violently. Something was squatting over him.

At first Conan doubted his consciousness, thinking it but a figment of delirium. Surely it could not be real—that strange, motionless gray being that squatted on its haunches and stared down at him with unblinking, soulless eyes.

Conan lay and stared, half expecting it to vanish like a figure from a dream, and then a chill of recollection crept along his spine. Half-forgotten memories surged back—grisly tales whispered of the shapes that haunted these uninhabited forests at the foot of the hills marking the Zingaran-Argossean border. Ghouls, men called them—eaters of human flesh, spawn of darkness, children of unholy matings between a lost and forgotten race and the demons of the underworld. Somewhere in these primeval forests, men whispered, lay the ruins of an ancient, accursed city, and among its tombs slunk gray, anthropomorphic shadows. Conan shuddered violently.

He lay staring at the malformed head that loomed dimly above him, and cautiously extended a hand toward the sword at his hip. With a horrible cry that the man involuntarily echoed, the monster was at his throat.

Conan threw up his right arm, and the dog-like jaws closed on it, driving the mail links into his flesh. The misshapen yet man-like hands clutched for his throat, but he evaded them with a heave and roll of his whole body, drawing his dagger with his left hand.

They tumbled over and over on the grass, smiting and tearing. The muscles coiling under that gray, corpse-like skin were stringy and hard as steel wires, exceeding the strength of a man. But Conan’s thews were iron too, and his mail saved him from the gnashing fangs and ripping claws long enough for him to drive home his dagger again and again. The horrible vitality of the semi-human monstrosity seemed inexhaustible, and the king’s skin crawled at the feel of that slick, clammy flesh. He put all his loathing and savage revulsion behind the plunging blade, and suddenly the monster heaved up convulsively beneath him as the point found its grisly heart—and then lay still.

Conan rose, shaken with nausea. He stood in the center of the glade uncertainly, sword in one hand and dagger in the other. He had not lost his instinctive sense of direction as far as the points of the compass were concerned, but he did not know in which direction the road lay. He had no way of knowing where the ghoul had dragged him. Conan glared at the silent, black, moon-dappled woods surrounding him and felt cold moisture bead his flesh. He was without a horse and lost in these haunted woods, and that staring, deformed thing at his feet was mute evidence of the horrors that lurked in the forest. He stood almost holding his breath in painful intensity, straining his ears for some crack of twig or rustle of grass.

When a sound did come, he started violently. Suddenly, out on the night air, broke the scream of a terrified horse. His stallion! There were panthers in the wood—or ghouls ate beasts as well as men.

He broke savagely through the brush in the direction of the sound, whistling shrilly as he ran, his fear drowned in berserk rage. If his horse was killed, there went his last chance of following Beloso and recovering the jewel. Again the stallion screamed with fear and fury, somewhere nearer. There was a sound of lashing heels, and something was struck heavily and gave way.

Conan burst out onto the wide white road without warning and saw the stallion plunging and rearing in the moonlight, his ears laid back, his eyes and teeth flashing wickedly. He lashed out with his heels at a slinking shadow that ducked and bobbed about him—and then, around Conan, other shadows moved: gray, furtive shapes that closed in on all sides. A hideous charnel-house scent reeked up in the night air.