With a curse, the king hewed right and left with his broadsword, thrusting and ripping with his dagger. Dripping fangs flashed in the moonlight; foul paws clawed at him, but he hacked his way through to the stallion, caught the rein, and leaped into the saddle. His sword rose and fell, a frosty arc in the moonlight, showering blood as it split misshapen heads and clove shambling bodies. The stallion reared, biting and kicking. They burst through and thundered down the road. On either hand, for a short space, flitted gray, abhorrent shadows. Then these fell behind, and Conan, topping a wooded crest, saw a vast expanse of bare slopes sweeping up and away before him.

13 - 'A GHOST OUT OF THE PAST'  
'A Ghost Out of the Past'

Soon after sunrise, Conan crossed the Argossean border. Of Beloso he had seen no trace. Either the captain had made good his escape while the king lay senseless, or he had fallen prey to the grim man-eaters of the Zingaran forest. But Conan had seen no signs to indicate the latter. The fact that he had lain unmolested for so long suggested that the monsters had been engrossed in futile pursuit of the captain. And if the man lived, Conan felt certain he was riding somewhere ahead along the road. Unless Beloso had intended to go into Argos, he would never have taken the eastward road in the first place.

The helmeted guards at the frontier did not question the Cimmerian. A single wandering mercenary required no passport or safe-conduct, especially when his plain mail showed him to be in the service of no lord. Through low grassy hills where streams murmured and oak groves dappled the sward with light and shadow, he rode, following the long road that rose and fell ahead of him over dales and ridges fading into the blue distance. It was an old, old road—this highway from Poitain to the sea.

Argos was at peace; laden ox-wains rumbled along the road, and men with bare, brown, brawny arms toiled in orchards and fields that smiled beneath the branches of roadside trees. Old men on settles before inns under spreading oaks called greetings to the wayfarer.

From the men who worked the fields, from the garrulous old men in the inns where he slaked his thirst with great leathern jacks of foaming ale, and from the sharp-eyed, silk-clad merchants he met upon the road, Conan sought news of Beloso.

Stories conflicted, but this much Conan learned: a lean, wiry Zingaran with the dangerous black eyes and mustaches of the western folk was somewhere ahead on the road, apparently making for Messantia. It was a logical destination; all the seaports of Argos were cosmopolitan, in strong contrast to the inland provinces, and Messantia was the most polyglot of all. Ships of every maritime nation rode in its harbor, and refugees and fugitives from many lands gathered there. Laws were lax, for Messantia thrived on sea trade, and her citizens found it profitable to be somewhat blind in their dealings with seamen. It was not only legitimate trade that flowed into Messantia; smugglers and buccaneers also played their part. All this Conan knew well, for had he not, in the days of old when he was a Barachan pirate, sailed by night into the harbor of Messantia to discharge strange cargoes? Most of the pirates of the Barachan Isles—small islands off the southwestern coast of Zingara—were Argossean sailors, and as long as they confined their depredations to the shipping of other nations, the authorities of Argos were not too strict in their interpretation of sea laws.

But Conan had not limited his activities to those of the Barachans. He had also sailed with the Zingaran buccaneers, and even with those wild black corsairs who swept up from the far south to harry the northern coasts, and this put him beyond the pale of any law. If he were recognized in any port of Argos, it would cost him his head. Yet without hesitation he rode on to Messantia, halting day or night only to rest the stallion and snatch a few winks of sleep for himself.

* * * * *

He entered the city unquestioned, merging with the throngs that poured continually in and out of this great commercial center. No walls surrounded Messantia; the sea and the ships of the sea guarded the great southern trading city.

It was evening when Conan rode leisurely through the streets that marched down to the waterfront. At the ends of these streets he saw the wharves and the masts and sails of ships. He smelled salt water for the first time in years, heard the thrum of cordage and the creak of spars in the breeze that was kicking up whitecaps beyond the headlands. Again, the urge for far wandering tugged at his heart.

But he did not go on to the wharves. He reined aside and rode up a steep flight of wide, worn stone steps to a broad street where ornate white mansions overlooked the waterfront and harbor below. Here dwelt the men who had grown rich from the hard-won fat of the seas—some old sea-captains who had found treasure afar, many traders and merchants who had never trod naked decks nor known the roar of tempest or sea-fight.

Conan turned his horse in at a certain gold-worked gate and rode into a court where a fountain tinkled and pigeons fluttered from marble coping to marble flagging. A page in jagged silken jupon and hose came forward inquiringly. The merchants of Messantia dealt with many strange and rough characters, but most of these smacked of the sea. It was unusual that a mercenary trooper should so freely ride into the court of a lord of commerce.

“The merchant Publio dwells here?” It was more statement than question, and something in the timbre of the voice caused the page to doff his feathered chaperon as he bowed and replied, “Aye, so he does, my captain.”

Conan dismounted, and the page called a servitor, who came running to receive the stallion’s rein.

“Your master is within?” Conan drew off his gauntlets and slapped the dust of the road from cloak and mail.

“Aye, my captain. Whom shall I announce?”

“I’ll announce myself,” grunted Conan. “I know the way well enough. Bide you here.”

Obeying that peremptory command, the page stood still, staring after Conan as the latter climbed a short flight of marble steps, wondering what connection his master might have with this giant fighting-man who bore the aspect of a northern barbarian.