Menials at their tasks halted and gaped open-mouthed as Conan crossed a wide, cool balcony overlooking the court and entered a broad corridor through which the sea breeze swept. Halfway down, he heard a quill scratching and turned into a spacious room whose many wide casements overlooked the harbor.  

Publio sat at a carved teakwood desk, writing on rich parchment with a golden quill. He was a short man with a massive head and quick, dark eyes. His blue robe was of the finest watered silk, trimmed with cloth-of-gold, and from his thick white throat hung a heavy gold chain.  

As the Cimmerian entered, the merchant looked up with a gesture of annoyance—then froze. His mouth opened; he stared as at a ghost from the past. Unbelief and fear glimmered in his wide eyes.  

“Well,” said Conan, “have you no word of greeting, Publio?”  

Publio moistened his lips.  

“Conan!” he whispered incredulously. “Mitra! Conan! Amra!”  

“Who else?” The Cimmerian unclasped his cloak and threw it, with his gauntlets, down upon the desk. “Well, man?” he exclaimed irritably. “Can’t you at least offer me a beaker of wine? My throat’s caked with the dust of the highway.”  

“Aye, wine!” echoed Publio mechanically. Instinctively his hand reached for a gong, then recoiled as from a hot coal, and he shuddered.  

While Conan watched him with a flicker of grim amusement in his eyes, the merchant rose and hurriedly shut the door, first craning his neck up and down the corridor to be sure no slave was loitering nearby. Then, returning, he took a gold vessel of wine from a nearby table and was about to fill a slender goblet when Conan impatiently took the vessel from him and, lifting it with both hands, drank deep and with gusto.  

“Aye, it’s Conan, right enough,” muttered Publio. “Man, are you mad?”  

“By Crom, Publio,” said Conan, lowering the vessel but keeping it in his hands, “you dwell in different quarters than of old. It takes an Argossean merchant to wring wealth out of a little waterfront shop that stank of rotten fish and cheap wine.”  

“The old days are past,” muttered Publio, drawing his robe about him with a slight involuntary shudder. “I have put off the past like a worn-out cloak.”  

“Well,” retorted Conan, “you can’t put me off like an old cloak. It isn’t much I want of you, but that much I do want—and you can’t refuse me. We had too many dealings in the old days. Am I such a fool that I don’t know this fine mansion was built on my sweat and blood? How many cargoes from my galleys passed through your shop?”  

“All merchants of Messantia have dealt with sea rovers at one time or another,” mumbled Publio nervously.  

“But not with the black corsairs,” answered Conan grimly.  

“For Mitra’s sake, be silent!” ejaculated Publio, sweat starting on his brow. His fingers twitched at the gilt-worked edge of his robe.  

“Well, I only wished to remind you,” said Conan. “Don’t be so fearful. You took plenty of risks in the past, when you were struggling for life and wealth in that filthy little shop by the wharves, hand-in-glove with every buccaneer, smuggler, and pirate from here to the Barachan Isles. Prosperity must have softened you.”  

“I am respectable,” began Publio.  

“Meaning you’re rich as hell,” snorted Conan. “Why? Why did you grow wealthy so much faster than your competitors? Was it because you did a big business in ivory and ostrich feathers, copper, skins, pearls, hammered gold ornaments, and other things from the coast of Kush? And where did you get them so cheaply, while other merchants paid their weight in silver to the Stygians? I’ll tell you, in case you’ve forgotten—you bought them from me, at far less than their value, and I took them from the tribes of the Black Coast and from the ships of the Stygians—I, and the black corsairs.”  

“In Mitra’s name, cease!” begged Publio. “I have not forgotten. But what are you doing here? I am the only man in Argos who knew that the king of Aquilonia was once Conan the buccaneer, in the old days. But word has come southward of the overthrow of Aquilonia and the death of the king.”  

“My enemies have killed me a hundred times by rumor,” grunted Conan. “Yet here I sit and guzzle wine of Kyros.” And he suited the action to the word.  

Lowering the vessel, now nearly empty, he said, “It’s but a small thing I ask of you, Publio. I know you’re aware of everything that goes on in Messantia. I want to know if a Zingaran named Beloso—or he might call himself something else—is in this city. He’s tall, lean, and dark like all his race, and it’s likely he’ll try to sell a very rare jewel.”  

Publio shook his head.  

“I have not heard of such a man. But thousands come and go in Messantia. If he is here, my agents will discover him.”  

“Good. Send them to look for him. And in the meantime, have my horse cared for and food served to me here in this room.”  

Publio assented volubly, and Conan emptied the wine vessel, tossed it carelessly into a corner, and strode to a nearby casement, involuntarily expanding his chest as he breathed deep of the salt air. He looked down upon the meandering waterfront streets, swept the ships in the harbor with an appreciative glance, then lifted his head and stared beyond the bay, far into the blue haze where sea met sky. His memory sped beyond that horizon, to the golden seas of the south under flaming suns, where laws were not and life ran hotly. Some vagrant scent of spice or palm awakened vivid images of strange coasts where mangroves grew and drums thundered, of ships locked in battle and decks running with blood, of smoke and flame and the cries of slaughter. Lost in his thoughts, he scarcely noticed when Publio stole from the chamber.  

Gathering up his robe, the merchant hurried along the corridors until he came to a certain chamber where a tall, gaunt man with a scar upon his temple wrote continually upon parchment. There was something about this man that made his clerkly occupation seem incongruous. To him, Publio spoke abruptly:  