“Conan has returned!”

“Conan?” The gaunt man started up, and the quill fell from his fingers. “The corsair?”

“Aye!”

The gaunt man went livid. “Is he mad? If he is discovered here, we are ruined! They’ll hang any man who shelters or trades with a corsair as quickly as they’ll hang the corsair himself! What if the governor learns of our past dealings with him?”

“He will not learn,” answered Publio grimly. “Send your men into the markets and wharfside dives to find whether one Beloso, a Zingaran, is in Messantia. Conan said he had a gem, which he will likely try to sell. The jewel merchants should know of him, if anyone does. And here is another task for you: gather a dozen or so desperate villains who can be trusted to kill a man and hold their tongues afterward. You understand me?”

“I understand.” The other nodded slowly and somberly.

“I have not stolen, cheated, lied, and fought my way up from the gutter to be undone now by a ghost out of my past,” muttered Publio. The sinister darkness of his expression at that moment would have astonished the wealthy nobles and ladies who bought silks and pearls from his many stalls. But when he returned to Conan a short time later, bearing a platter of fruit and meats in his own hands, he presented a placid face to his unwelcome guest.

Conan still stood at the casement, gazing down into the harbor at the purple, crimson, vermilion, and scarlet sails of galleons, carracks, galleys, and dromonds.

“There’s a Stygian galley, if I’m not blind,” he remarked, pointing to a long, low, slim black ship lying apart from the others, anchored off the broad sandy beach that curved toward the distant headland. “Is there peace, then, between Stygia and Argos?”

“The same sort that has always existed,” answered Publio, setting the platter on the table with a sigh of relief, for it was heavily laden and he knew his guest of old. “Stygian ports are temporarily open to our ships, as ours to theirs. But may none of my craft meet their cursed galleys out of sight of land! That galley crept into the bay last night. What its masters want, I do not know. So far they have neither bought nor sold. I distrust those dark-skinned devils. Treachery was born in that dusky land.”

“I’ve made them howl,” said Conan carelessly, turning from the window. “In my galley manned by black corsairs, I crept to the very bastions of the sea-washed castles of black-walled Khemi by night and burned the galleons anchored there. And speaking of treachery, my host, suppose you taste these viands and sip a bit of this wine, just to show me your heart is on the right side.”

Publio complied so readily that Conan’s suspicions were eased, and without further hesitation he sat down and devoured enough for three men.

While he ate, men moved through the markets and along the waterfront, searching for a Zingaran who had a jewel to sell or sought a ship to carry him to foreign ports. And a tall, gaunt man with a scar on his temple sat with his elbows on a wine-stained table in a squalid cellar, a brass lantern hanging from a smoke-blackened beam overhead, conversing with ten desperate rogues whose sinister faces and ragged garments proclaimed their trade.

As the first stars blinked out, they shone on a strange band spurring their mounts along the white road that led to Messantia from the west. They were four men—tall, gaunt, clad in black hooded robes—and they did not speak. They drove their steeds mercilessly onward, and those steeds were as gaunt, sweat-stained, and weary as their riders, as if from long travel and far wandering.

14 – THE BLACK HAND OF SET  
The Black Hand of Set

Conan woke from a sound sleep as swiftly and silently as a cat. And like a cat, he was on his feet with his sword drawn before the man who had touched him could even step back.

“What word, Publio?” demanded Conan, recognizing his host. The gold lamp burned low, casting a mellow glow over the thick tapestries and the rich coverings of the couch where he had been resting.

Publio, recovering from the start given him by the sudden action of his guest, replied, “The Zingaran has been found. He arrived yesterday at dawn. Only a few hours ago he tried to sell a huge, strange jewel to a Shemitish merchant, but the Shemite would have nothing to do with it. Men say he turned pale beneath his black beard at the sight of it, and, closing his stall, fled as from a thing accursed.”

“It must be Beloso,” muttered Conan, feeling the pulse in his temples pound with impatient eagerness. “Where is he now?”

“He sleeps in the house of Servio.”

“I know that dive of old,” grunted Conan. “I’d better hurry before some waterfront thief cuts his throat for the jewel.”

He took up his cloak and flung it over his shoulders, then donned a helmet Publio had procured for him.

“Have my steed saddled and ready in the court,” he said. “I may return in haste. I shall not forget this night’s work, Publio.”

A few moments later, Publio, standing at a small outer door, watched the king’s tall figure receding down the shadowy street.

“Farewell to you, corsair,” muttered the merchant. “This must be a notable jewel, to be sought by a man who has just lost a kingdom. I wish I had told my knaves to let him secure it before they did their work. But then, something might have gone awry. Let Argos forget Amra, and let my dealings with him be lost in the dust of the past. In the alley behind the house of Servio—that is where Conan will cease to be a peril to me.”

* * * * *

Servio’s house, a dingy, ill-famed den, stood close to the wharves, facing the waterfront. It was a ramshackle building of stone and heavy ship-beams, with a long, narrow alley running alongside it. Conan made his way along the alley, and as he approached the house he felt an uneasy sense of being watched. He stared hard into the shadows of the squalid buildings but saw nothing, though once he caught the faint rasp of cloth or leather against flesh. But that was nothing unusual. Thieves and beggars prowled these alleys all night, and they were not likely to attack him after one look at his size and harness.