Suddenly, a door opened in the wall ahead of him, and he slipped into the shadow of an arch. A figure emerged from the open door and moved along the alley—not furtively, but with a natural noiselessness, like that of a jungle beast. Enough starlight filtered into the alley to silhouette the man’s profile as he passed the doorway where Conan lurked. The stranger was a Stygian. There was no mistaking that hawk-faced, shaven head, even in the dim light, nor the mantle draped over his broad shoulders. He continued down the alley toward the beach, and once Conan thought he must be carrying a lantern hidden in his garments, for he caught a flash of lambent light just as the man vanished.  

But the Cimmerian forgot the stranger as he noticed that the door through which he had emerged still stood open. Conan had intended to enter by the main entrance and force Servio to show him the room where the Zingaran slept. But if he could get into the house without attracting attention, so much the better.  

A few long strides brought him to the door, and as his hand fell on the lock he stifled an involuntary grunt. His practiced fingers, trained long ago among the thieves of Zamora, told him the lock had been forced—apparently by some terrific pressure from outside that had twisted and bent the heavy iron bolts, tearing the very sockets loose from the jambs. How such damage could have been done so violently without awakening everyone in the neighborhood Conan could not imagine, but he felt sure it had happened that night. A broken lock, if discovered, would not go unmended in the house of Servio, in this quarter of thieves and cutthroats.  

Conan entered stealthily, poniard in hand, wondering how he was to find the Zingaran’s chamber. Groping in total darkness, he halted suddenly. He sensed death in that room, as a wild beast senses it—not as peril threatening him, but as the presence of something freshly slain. In the darkness his foot struck and recoiled from something heavy and yielding. With a sudden premonition he groped along the wall until he found the shelf that held a brass lamp, with flint, steel, and tinder beside it. A few seconds later a flickering, uncertain light sprang up, and he stared narrowly about him.  

A bunk built against the rough stone wall, a bare table, and a bench completed the furnishings of the squalid chamber. An inner door stood closed and bolted. On the hard-beaten dirt floor lay Beloso. He was on his back, his head drawn back between his shoulders so that he seemed to stare with wide, glassy eyes at the sooty, cobwebbed ceiling. His lips were drawn back from his teeth in a frozen grin of agony. His sword lay near him, still in its scabbard. His shirt was torn open, and on his brown, muscular breast was the print of a black hand—thumb and four fingers plainly distinct.  

Conan glared in silence, the short hairs bristling at the back of his neck.  

“Crom!” he muttered. “The black hand of Set!”  

He had seen that mark before—the death-sign of the black priests of Set, the grim cult that ruled in dark Stygia. And suddenly he remembered the curious flash he had seen emanating from the mysterious Stygian who had emerged from this chamber.  

“The Heart, by Crom!” he muttered. “He was carrying it under his mantle. He stole it. He burst that door by his magic and slew Beloso. He was a priest of Set.”  

A quick search confirmed at least part of his suspicions. The jewel was not on the Zingaran’s body. An uneasy feeling rose in Conan that this had not happened by chance or without design—a conviction that the mysterious Stygian galley had come into the harbor of Messantia on a definite mission. How could the priests of Set know that the Heart had come southward? Yet the thought was no more fantastic than the necromancy that could slay an armed man by the touch of an open, empty hand.  

A stealthy footfall outside the door brought him around like a great cat. In one motion he extinguished the lamp and drew his sword. His ears told him that men were out there in the darkness, closing in on the doorway. As his eyes adjusted to the sudden blackness, he made out dim figures surrounding the entrance. He could not guess their identity, but as always he took the initiative—leaping suddenly from the doorway without waiting for the attack.  

His unexpected movement took the skulkers by surprise. He sensed and heard men close about him, saw a dim masked figure in the starlight before him; then his sword crunched home, and he was fleeing down the alley before the slower-thinking attackers could intercept him.  

As he ran, he heard somewhere ahead a faint creak of oarlocks, and he forgot the men behind him. A boat was moving out into the bay! Gritting his teeth, he increased his speed, but before he reached the beach he heard the rasp and creak of ropes and the grind of a great sweep in its socket.  

Thick clouds rolling up from the sea obscured the stars. In the darkness Conan came upon the strand, straining his eyes across the black, restless water. Something was moving out there—a long, low, black shape receding into the gloom, gathering momentum as it went. To his ears came the rhythmic clack of long oars. He ground his teeth in helpless fury. It was the Stygian galley, racing out to sea, bearing with it the jewel that meant to him the throne of Aquilonia.  

With a savage curse he took a step toward the waves lapping against the sands, catching at his hauberk and intending to rip it off and swim after the vanishing ship. Then the crunch of a heel in the sand brought him about. He had forgotten his pursuers.  

Dark figures closed in on him with a rush of feet through the sand. The first went down beneath the Cimmerian’s flailing sword, but the others did not falter. Blades whickered dimly about him in the darkness or rasped on his mail. Blood and entrails spilled over his hand, and someone screamed as he ripped murderously upward. A muttered voice spurred on the attack, and that voice sounded vaguely familiar. Conan plowed through the clinging, hacking shapes toward the sound. A faint light gleaming momentarily through the drifting clouds showed him a tall, gaunt man with a great livid scar on his temple. Conan’s sword sheared through his skull as through a ripe melon.  