Then an ax, swung blindly in the dark, crashed against the king’s basinet, filling his eyes with sparks of fire. He lurched and lunged, felt his sword sink deep, and heard a shriek of agony. Then he stumbled over a corpse, and a bludgeon knocked the dented helmet from his head; the next instant, the club fell full on his unprotected skull.  

The king of Aquilonia crumpled into the wet sands. Over him, wolfish figures panted in the gloom.  

“Strike off his head,” muttered one.  

“Let him lie,” grunted another. “Help me tie up my wounds before I bleed to death. The tide will wash him into the bay. See, he fell at the water’s edge. His skull’s split; no man could live after such blows.”  

“Help me strip him,” urged another. “His harness will fetch a few pieces of silver. And haste—Tiberio is dead, and I hear seamen singing as they reel along the strand. Let us be gone.”  

There followed hurried activity in the darkness, and then the sound of quickly receding footsteps. The tipsy singing of the seamen grew louder.  

* * * * *  

In his chamber, Publio, nervously pacing before a window that overlooked the shadowed bay, whirled suddenly, his nerves tingling. To the best of his knowledge, the door had been bolted from within; but now it stood open, and four men filed into the room. At the sight of them, his flesh crawled. Publio had seen many strange beings in his lifetime, but never any like these. They were tall and gaunt, black-robed, their faces dim yellow ovals in the shadows of their coifs. He could not discern their features clearly and was unreasonably glad of it. Each bore a long, curiously mottled staff.  

“Who are you?” he demanded, his voice brittle and hollow. “What do you want here?”  

“Where is Conan, he who was king of Aquilonia?” asked the tallest of the four in a passionless monotone that made Publio shudder. It was like the hollow tone of a Khitan temple bell.  

“I do not know what you mean,” stammered the merchant, his customary poise shaken by the uncanny presence of his visitors. “I know no such man.”  

“He has been here,” returned the other without change of inflection. “His horse is in the courtyard. Tell us where he is before we do you an injury.”  

“Gebal!” shouted Publio frantically, recoiling until he crouched against the wall. “Gebal!”  

The four Khitans watched him without emotion or change of expression.  

“If you summon your slave, he will die,” warned one of them, which only terrified Publio further.  

“Gebal!” he screamed. “Where are you, curse you? Thieves are murdering your master!”  

Swift footsteps padded in the corridor outside, and Gebal burst into the chamber—a Shemite of medium height and powerful build, his curled blue-black beard bristling, a short leaf-shaped sword in his hand.  

He stared in stupid amazement at the four intruders, unable to comprehend their presence, dimly recalling that he had dozed inexplicably on the stair he was guarding—the stair they must have climbed. He had never slept on duty before. But his master’s shrieks carried a note of hysteria, and the Shemite charged like a bull at the strangers, his thick arm drawing back for a disemboweling thrust. The stroke was never delivered.  

A black-sleeved arm shot out, extending the long staff. Its end merely touched the Shemite’s broad chest and was instantly withdrawn. The motion was horribly like the dart and recoil of a serpent’s head.  

Gebal halted short in his headlong rush, as if he had struck a solid wall. His bull head drooped forward on his breast, the sword slipped from his fingers, and he melted slowly to the floor. It was as if all the bones in his body had suddenly turned to water. Publio turned sick.  

“Do not shout again,” advised the tallest Khitan. “Your servants sleep soundly, but if you awaken them, they will die—and you with them. Where is Conan?”  

“He has gone to the house of Servio, near the waterfront, to search for the Zingaran Beloso,” gasped Publio, all resistance gone. The merchant was not without courage, but these uncanny visitors turned his marrow to water. He started convulsively at the sudden sound of footsteps hurrying up the stair outside, loud in the ominous stillness.  

“Your servant?” asked the Khitan.  

Publio shook his head mutely, his tongue frozen to his palate. He could not speak.  

One of the Khitans caught up a silken cover from a couch and threw it over the corpse. Then they melted behind the tapestry, but before the tallest man disappeared, he murmured, “Speak to this man who comes, and send him away quickly. If you betray us, neither he nor you will live to reach that door. Make no sign to show him you are not alone.” And lifting his staff suggestively, the yellow man faded behind the hangings.  

Publio shuddered and choked down a desire to retch. It might have been a trick of the light, but it seemed to him that those staffs moved slightly of their own accord, as if possessed of some unspeakable life.  

He pulled himself together with a mighty effort and presented a composed aspect to the ragged ruffian who burst into the chamber.  

“We have done as you wished, my lord,” the man exclaimed. “The barbarian lies dead on the sands at the water’s edge.”  

Publio felt a movement in the arras behind him and nearly collapsed from fright. The man continued heedlessly.  

“Your secretary, Tiberio, is dead. The barbarian slew him, and four of my companions. We bore their bodies to the rendezvous. There was nothing of value on the barbarian except a few silver coins. Are there any further orders?”  

“None!” gasped Publio, white-lipped. “Go!”  

The desperado bowed and hurried out, vaguely thinking that Publio was a man of weak stomach and few words.  

The four Khitans emerged from behind the arras.  

“Of whom did this man speak?” the tallest demanded.  

“Of a wandering stranger who did me an injury,” panted Publio.  