'You lie,' said the Khitan calmly. 'He spoke of the king of Aquilonia. I read it in your expression. Sit upon that divan and do not move or speak. I will remain with you while my three companions search for the body.'

So Publio sat, trembling with terror before the silent, inscrutable figure that watched him, until the three Khitans filed back into the room with the news that Conan’s body did not lie upon the sands. Publio did not know whether to be glad or sorry.

‘We found the spot where the fight took place,’ they said. ‘There was blood on the sand. But the king was gone.’

The fourth Khitan traced imaginary symbols upon the carpet with his staff, which glistened scalily in the lamplight.

‘Did you read nothing from the sands?’ he asked.

‘Aye,’ they answered. ‘The king lives, and he has gone southward in a ship.’

The tall Khitan lifted his head and gazed at Publio until the merchant broke into a profuse sweat.

‘What do you want of me?’ he stammered.

‘A ship,’ answered the Khitan. ‘A ship well manned for a very long voyage.’

‘For how long a voyage?’ stammered Publio, not even thinking of refusal.

‘To the ends of the world, perhaps,’ answered the Khitan, ‘or to the molten seas of hell that lie beyond the sunrise.’

15 - THE RETURN OF THE CORSAIR  
The Return of the Corsair

Conan’s first sensation upon returning to consciousness was that of motion; beneath him there was no solidity, only a ceaseless heaving and plunging. Then he heard the wind humming through cords and spars and knew he was aboard a ship even before his blurred sight cleared. He heard a mutter of voices, and then a dash of water deluged him, jerking him sharply into full awareness. He heaved up with a sulphurous curse, braced his legs, and glared about him, with coarse guffaws ringing in his ears and the reek of unwashed bodies in his nostrils.

He was standing on the poop deck of a long galley running before the wind that whipped down from the north, her striped sail bellying against taut sheets. The sun was just rising in a dazzling blaze of gold, blue, and green. To the left, the shoreline lay in a dim purple shadow; to the right stretched the open ocean. This much Conan saw at a glance, which also took in the ship itself.

It was long and narrow, a typical trading ship of the southern coasts, high of poop and stern, with cabins at either end. Conan looked down into the open waist, whence wafted that sickening, abominable odor he knew too well—the body-scent of the oarsmen chained to their benches. They were all negroes, forty men to each side, each confined by a chain locked about his waist, the other end welded to a heavy ring set deep in the solid runway beam that ran between the benches from stem to stern. The life of a slave aboard an Argossean galley was a hell unfathomable. Most of these were Kushites, but some thirty of the blacks who now rested on their idle oars and stared up at the stranger with dull curiosity were from the far southern isles, the homelands of the corsairs. Conan recognized them by their straighter features and hair, their rangier, cleaner-limbed build. Among them he saw men who had once followed him.

All this he took in with one swift, all-embracing glance as he rose, before turning his attention to the figures about him. Reeling momentarily on braced legs, fists clenched in wrath, he glared at the men surrounding him. The sailor who had drenched him stood grinning, the empty bucket still poised in his hand, and Conan cursed him with venom, instinctively reaching for his hilt. Then he discovered he was weaponless and naked except for his short leather breeks.

‘What lousy tub is this?’ he roared. ‘How did I come aboard here?’

The sailors laughed jeeringly—stocky, bearded Argosseans to a man—and one, whose richer dress and air of command marked him as captain, folded his arms and said domineeringly, ‘We found you lying on the sands. Somebody had rapped you on the pate and taken your clothes. Needing an extra man, we brought you aboard.’

‘What ship is this?’ Conan demanded.

‘The Venturer, out of Messantia, with a cargo of mirrors, scarlet silk cloaks, shields, gilded helmets, and swords to trade to the Shemites for copper and gold ore. I am Demetrio, captain of this vessel—and your master henceforward.’

‘Then I’m headed in the direction I wanted to go, after all,’ muttered Conan, heedless of that last remark. They were racing southeastward, following the long curve of the Argossean coast. These trading ships never ventured far from the shoreline. Somewhere ahead of him, he knew, that low, dark Stygian galley was speeding southward.

‘Have you sighted a Stygian galley—’ began Conan, but the beard of the burly, brutal-faced captain bristled. He was not in the least interested in any question his prisoner might ask and felt it high time to reduce this independent wastrel to his proper place.

‘Get forward!’ he roared. ‘I’ve wasted time enough with you! I’ve done you the honor of having you brought to the poop to be revived and answered enough of your infernal questions. Get off this poop! You’ll work your way aboard this galley—’

‘I’ll buy your ship—’ began Conan, before remembering he was a penniless wanderer.

A roar of rough mirth greeted his words, and the captain turned purple, thinking he was being mocked.

‘You mutinous swine!’ he bellowed, taking a threatening step forward, his hand closing on the knife at his belt. ‘Get forward before I have you flogged! Keep a civil tongue in your jaws, or by Mitra, I’ll have you chained among the blacks to tug an oar!’

Conan’s volcanic temper, never long restrained, burst into explosion. Not in years, even before he was king, had a man spoken to him thus and lived.

‘Don’t lift your voice to me, you tar-breeched dog!’ he roared, his voice as gusty as the sea wind, while the sailors gaped in astonishment. ‘Draw that toy and I’ll feed you to the fishes!’

‘Who do you think you are?’ gasped the captain.