“I’ll show you!” roared the maddened Cimmerian. He wheeled and bounded toward the rail, where weapons hung in their brackets.

The captain drew his knife and charged, bellowing, but before he could strike, Conan seized his wrist with a wrench that tore the arm clean from its socket. The captain bellowed like an ox in agony, then rolled across the deck as he was hurled contemptuously aside. Conan ripped a heavy axe from the rail and wheeled cat-like to meet the rush of the sailors. They came on, shouting like hounds, clumsy-footed and awkward beside the pantherish Cimmerian. Before they could reach him with their knives, he sprang among them, striking right and left too swiftly for the eye to follow. Blood and brains spattered as two corpses struck the deck.

Knives flailed the air wildly as Conan broke through the stumbling, gasping mob and bounded to the narrow bridge that spanned the waist from poop to forecastle, just out of reach of the slaves below. Behind him, the handful of sailors on the poop floundered after him, daunted by the slaughter of their comrades, while the rest of the crew—some thirty in all—came running across the bridge toward him, weapons in hand.

Conan bounded out onto the bridge and stood poised above the upturned black faces, axe lifted, black mane streaming in the wind.

“Who am I?” he yelled. “Look, you dogs! Look, Ajonga, Yasunga, Laranga! Who am I?”

From the waist rose a shout that swelled to a mighty roar: “Amra! It is Amra! The Lion has returned!”

The sailors who caught and understood the burden of that terrible cry paled and shrank back, staring in sudden fear at the wild figure on the bridge. Was this truly that bloodthirsty ogre of the southern seas who had vanished so mysteriously years ago, yet still lived in gory legend? The blacks were frothing mad now, shaking and tearing at their chains, shrieking the name of Amra like an invocation. Kushites who had never seen Conan before took up the yell. The slaves in the pen beneath the after-cabin began battering at the walls, shrieking like the damned.

Demetrio, dragging himself along the deck on one hand and his knees, livid with the agony of his dislocated arm, screamed, “In and kill him, dogs, before the slaves break loose!”

Fired to desperation by that word—the most dreaded among all galleymen—the sailors charged onto the bridge from both ends. But with a lion-like bound, Conan leapt from the bridge and landed cat-like on his feet in the runway between the benches.

“Death to the masters!” he thundered, and his axe rose and fell crashingly on a shackle chain, severing it like matchwood. In an instant, a shrieking slave was free, splintering his oar for a bludgeon. Men were racing frantically along the bridge above, and all hell broke loose aboard the Venturer. Conan’s axe rose and fell without pause, and with every stroke a frothing, screaming black giant broke free, mad with hate and the fury of freedom and vengeance.

Sailors leaping down into the waist to grapple or strike at the naked white giant found themselves dragged down by the hands of slaves yet unfreed, while others, their broken chains whipping about their limbs, came up out of the waist like a blind, black torrent, screaming like fiends, smiting with broken oars and pieces of iron, tearing and rending with talons and teeth. In the midst of the mêlée, the slaves in the pen broke down the walls and surged up onto the decks. With fifty blacks freed from their benches, Conan abandoned his iron-hewing and bounded up onto the bridge to add his notched axe to the bludgeons of his partisans.

Then it was massacre. The Argosseans were strong, sturdy, fearless as all their race, trained in the brutal school of the sea. But they could not stand against these maddened giants led by the tigerish barbarian. Blows, abuse, and hellish suffering were avenged in one red gust of fury that raged like a typhoon from one end of the ship to the other. When it had blown itself out, only one white man lived aboard the Venturer—the blood-stained giant about whom the chanting blacks thronged, casting themselves prostrate on the bloody deck and beating their heads against the boards in an ecstasy of hero-worship.

Conan, his mighty chest heaving and glistening with sweat, the red axe gripped in his blood-smeared hand, glared about him as the first chief of men might have glared in some primordial dawn, and shook back his black mane. In that moment he was not king of Aquilonia; he was again lord of the black corsairs, who had hacked his way to mastery through flame and blood.

“Amra! Amra!” chanted the delirious blacks, those who were left to chant. “The Lion has returned! Now will the Stygians howl like dogs in the night, and the black dogs of Kush will howl! Now will villages burst in flames and ships founder! Aie, there will be wailing of women and the thunder of spears!”

“Cease this yammering, dogs!” Conan roared, his voice drowning the clap of the sail in the wind. “Ten of you go below and free the oarsmen still chained. The rest of you, man the sweeps and bend to oars and halyards. Crom’s devils, can’t you see we’ve drifted inshore during the fight? Do you want to run aground and be retaken by the Argosseans? Throw these carcasses overboard! Jump to it, you rogues, or I’ll notch your hides for you!”

With shouts, laughter, and wild singing they leapt to obey. The corpses, white and black, were hurled overboard, where triangular fins already cut the water.

Conan stood on the poop, frowning down at the black men who watched him expectantly. His heavy brown arms were folded, his black hair, grown long in his wanderings, blew in the wind. A wilder, more barbaric figure never trod a ship’s bridge, and in this ferocious corsair few of the courtiers of Aquilonia would have recognized their king.

“There’s food in the hold!” he roared. “Weapons in plenty for you, for this ship carried blades and harness to the Shemites along the coast. There are enough of us to work the ship—aye, and to fight! You rowed in chains for the Argossean dogs; will you row as free men for Amra?”