“Aye!” they roared. “We are thy children! Lead us where you will!”

“Then fall to and clean out that waist,” he commanded. “Free men don’t labor in such filth. Three of you come with me and break out food from the after-cabin. By Crom, I’ll pad out your ribs before this cruise is done.”

Another yell of approbation answered him as the half-starved blacks scurried to do his bidding. The sail bellied as the wind swept over the waves with renewed force, and the white crests danced along the sweep of the wind. Conan planted his feet to the heave of the deck, breathed deep, and spread his mighty arms. King of Aquilonia he might no longer be; king of the blue ocean he was still.

16 – BLACK-WALLED KHEMI  
Black-Walled Khemi

The Venturer swept southward like a living thing, her oars now pulled by free and willing hands. She had been transformed from a peaceful trader into a war-galley, insofar as the transformation was possible. Men sat at the benches with swords at their sides and gilded helmets on their kinky heads. Shields hung along the rails, and sheaves of spears, bows, and arrows adorned the mast. Even the elements seemed to favor Conan now; the broad purple sail swelled to a stiff breeze that held day by day, needing little aid from the oars.

Though Conan kept a man on the masthead day and night, they did not sight the long, low, black galley fleeing southward ahead of them. Day after day the blue waters rolled empty before their eyes, broken only by fishing craft that fled like frightened birds at the sight of the shields hung along the rail. The trading season was nearly over for the year, and they sighted no other ships.

When the lookout finally spied a sail, it was to the north, not the south. Far on the skyline behind them appeared a racing galley with full spread of purple sail. The blacks urged Conan to turn and plunder it, but he shook his head. Somewhere south of him a slim black galley was racing toward the ports of Stygia. That night, before darkness fell, the lookout’s last glimpse showed the racing galley still on the horizon, and at dawn it hung there yet, tiny in the distance. Conan wondered if it followed him, though he could think of no reason for such a suspicion. He paid it little heed.

Each day that carried him farther south filled him with fiercer impatience. Doubts never assailed him. As surely as he believed in the rise and set of the sun, he believed that a priest of Set had stolen the Heart of Ahriman. And where would a priest of Set carry it but to Stygia? The blacks sensed his eagerness and toiled as they had never toiled under the lash, though ignorant of his goal. They anticipated a red career of pillage and plunder and were content. The men of the southern isles knew no other trade, and the Kushites of the crew joined wholeheartedly in the prospect of looting their own people, with the callousness of their race. Blood ties meant little; a victorious chieftain and personal gain meant everything.

Soon the character of the coastline changed. No longer did they sail past steep cliffs with blue hills marching behind them. Now the shore was the edge of broad meadowlands that barely rose above the water’s edge and swept away into the hazy distance. Here were few harbors and fewer ports, but the green plain was dotted with the cities of the Shemites—green sea lapping the rim of the green plains, and the ziggurats of the cities gleaming whitely in the sun, some small in the distance.

Through the grazing lands moved herds of cattle and squat, broad riders with cylindrical helmets and curled blue-black beards, bows in hand. This was the shore of the lands of Shem, where there was no law save what each city-state could enforce for itself. Far to the east, Conan knew, the meadowlands gave way to desert, where there were no cities and the nomadic tribes roamed unhindered.

Still they plied southward, past the changeless panorama of city-dotted meadowland, until at last the scenery began to alter again. Clumps of tamarind appeared, the palm groves grew denser. The shoreline became more broken, a marching rampart of green fronds and trees, and behind them rose bare, sandy hills. Streams poured into the sea, and along their moist banks vegetation grew thick and of vast variety.

At last they passed the mouth of a broad river that mingled its flow with the ocean and saw the great black walls and towers of Khemi rise against the southern horizon.

The river was the Styx, the true border of Stygia. Khemi was Stygia’s greatest port and at that time her most important city. The king dwelt at ancient Luxur, but in Khemi reigned the priestcraft, though men said the center of their dark religion lay far inland, in a mysterious, deserted city near the bank of the Styx. This river, springing from some nameless source far in the unknown lands south of Stygia, ran northward for a thousand miles before turning westward for some hundreds more, to empty at last into the ocean.

The Venturer, showing no lights, stole past the port in the night and before dawn lay anchored in a small bay a few miles south of the city. It was surrounded by marsh—a green tangle of mangroves, palms, and lianas swarming with crocodiles and serpents. Discovery was extremely unlikely. Conan knew the place of old; he had hidden there before, in his corsair days.

As they slid silently past the city whose great black bastions rose on the jutting prongs of land that locked the harbor, torches gleamed and smoldered luridly, and to their ears came the low thunder of drums. The port was not crowded with ships as were the harbors of Argos. The Stygians did not base their glory and power upon ships and fleets. Trading vessels and war galleys they had, indeed, but not in proportion to their inland strength. Many of their craft plied up and down the great river rather than along the sea coasts.

The Stygians were an ancient race, dark and inscrutable, powerful and merciless. Long ago their rule had stretched far north of the Styx, beyond the meadowlands of Shem and into the fertile uplands now inhabited by the peoples of Koth, Ophir, and Argos. Their borders had marched with those of ancient Acheron. But Acheron had fallen, and the barbaric ancestors of the Hyborians had swept southward in wolfskins and horned helmets, driving the ancient rulers of the land before them. The Stygians had not forgotten.