* * * * *  

All day the *Venturer* lay at anchor in the tiny bay, walled in by green branches and tangled vines through which flitted bright-plumed, harsh-voiced birds, and among which glided silent, bright-scaled reptiles. Toward sundown a small boat crept out and down along the shore, seeking and finding that which Conan desired—a Stygian fisherman in his shallow, flat-prowed boat.  

They brought him to the deck of the *Venturer*—a tall, dark, rangy man, ashen with fear of his captors, who were ogres of that coast. He was naked except for his silken breeches, for, like the Hyrkanians, even the commoners and slaves of Stygia wore silk. In his boat lay a wide mantle such as these fishermen flung about their shoulders against the chill of night.  

He fell to his knees before Conan, expecting torture and death.  

“Stand on your legs, man, and quit trembling,” said the Cimmerian impatiently, who found it hard to understand abject terror. “You won’t be harmed. Tell me this: has a galley—a black racing galley returning from Argos—put into Khemi within the last few days?”  

“Aye, my lord,” answered the fisherman. “Only yesterday at dawn the priest Thutothmes returned from a voyage far to the north. Men say he has been to Messantia.”  

“What did he bring from Messantia?”  

“Alas, my lord, I know not.”  

“Why did he go to Messantia?” demanded Conan.  

“Nay, my lord, I am but a common man. Who am I to know the minds of the priests of Set? I can only speak what I have seen and what I have heard men whisper along the wharves. Men say that news of great import came southward, though of what none knows; and it is well known that the lord Thutothmes put off in his black galley in great haste. Now he is returned, but what he did in Argos, or what cargo he brought back, none knows—not even the seamen who manned his galley. Men say he has opposed Thoth-Amon, who is master of all priests of Set and dwells in Luxur, and that Thutothmes seeks hidden power to overthrow the Great One. But who am I to say? When priests war with one another, a common man can but lie on his belly and hope neither treads upon him.”  

Conan snarled in nervous exasperation at this servile philosophy and turned to his men. “I’m going alone into Khemi to find this thief Thutothmes. Keep this man prisoner, but see that you do him no harm. Crom’s devils, stop your yowling! Do you think we can sail into the harbor and take the city by storm? I must go alone.”  

Silencing their protests, he doffed his own garments and donned the prisoner’s silk breeches and sandals, and the band from the man’s hair, but scorned the short fisherman’s knife. The common men of Stygia were not allowed to wear swords, and the mantle was not voluminous enough to hide the Cimmerian’s long blade. Instead, Conan buckled to his hip a Ghanata knife, a weapon borne by the fierce desert men who dwelt south of Stygia—a broad, heavy, slightly curved blade of fine steel, edged like a razor and long enough to dismember a man.  

Then, leaving the Stygian guarded by the corsairs, Conan climbed into the fisher’s boat.  

“Wait for me until dawn,” he said. “If I haven’t come then, I’ll never come, so hasten southward to your own homes.”  

As he clambered over the rail, they set up a doleful wail at his going, until he thrust his head back into sight to curse them into silence. Then, dropping into the boat, he grasped the oars and sent the tiny craft shooting over the waves more swiftly than its owner had ever propelled it.  

17 – “HE HAS SLAIN THE SACRED SON OF SET!”  
“He Has Slain the Sacred Son of Set!”  

The harbor of Khemi lay between two great jutting points of land that ran into the ocean. He rounded the southern point, where the great black castles rose like a man-made hill, and entered the harbor just at dusk, when there was still enough light for the watchers to recognize the fisherman’s boat and mantle, but not enough to discern betraying details. Unchallenged, he threaded his way among the great black war galleys lying silent and unlighted at anchor, and drew up to a flight of wide stone steps that mounted from the water’s edge. There he made his boat fast to an iron ring set in the stone, as numerous similar craft were tied. There was nothing strange in a fisherman leaving his boat there. None but a fisherman could find use for such a craft, and they did not steal from one another.  

No one cast him more than a casual glance as he mounted the long steps, unobtrusively avoiding the torches that flared at intervals above the lapping black water. He seemed but an ordinary, empty-handed fisherman returning after a fruitless day along the coast. If one had observed him closely, it might have seemed that his step was somewhat too springy and sure, his carriage too erect and confident for a lowly fisherman. But he passed quickly, keeping to the shadows, and the commoners of Stygia were no more given to analysis than were those of less exotic races.  

In build he was not unlike the warrior caste of the Stygians, who were a tall, muscular race. Bronzed by the sun, he was nearly as dark as many of them. His black hair, square-cut and bound by a copper band, increased the resemblance. The traits that set him apart were the subtle difference in his stride, and his alien features and blue eyes.  

But the mantle was a good disguise, and he kept as much in the shadows as possible, turning his head away when a native passed too closely.  

It was a desperate game, and he knew he could not long maintain the deception. Khemi was not like the seaports of the Hyborians, where men of every race swarmed. The only aliens here were black and Shemite slaves, and he resembled neither, even as much as he resembled the Stygians themselves. Strangers were not welcome in the cities of Stygia; they were tolerated only when they came as ambassadors or licensed traders. Even then, the latter were not allowed ashore after dark. And now there were no Hyborian ships in the harbor at all. A strange restlessness ran through the city—a stirring of ancient ambitions, a whispering none could define except those who whispered. This Conan felt rather than knew, his sharpened primitive instincts sensing unrest about him.  