If he were discovered, his fate would be ghastly. They would slay him merely for being a stranger; if he were recognized as Amra, the corsair chief who had swept their coasts with steel and flame—an involuntary shudder twitched Conan’s broad shoulders. Human foes he did not fear, nor any death by steel or fire. But this was a black land of sorcery and nameless horror. Set, the Old Serpent, men said, though banished long ago from the Hyborian races, still lurked in the shadows of cryptic temples, and awful and mysterious were the deeds done in the nighted shrines.

He had drawn away from the waterfront streets with their broad steps leading down to the water and was entering the long, shadowy streets of the main part of the city. There was no scene such as might be found in any Hyborian city—no blaze of lamps and cressets, no gay-clad people laughing and strolling along the pavements, no shops or stalls wide open and displaying their wares.

Here the stalls were closed at dusk. The only lights along the streets were torches flaring smokily at wide intervals. People walking the streets were comparatively few; they went hurriedly and without speech, and their numbers dwindled as the hour grew late. Conan found the scene gloomy and unreal—the silence of the people, their furtive haste, the great black stone walls rising on each side of the streets. There was a grim massiveness about Stygian architecture that was both overpowering and oppressive.

Few lights showed anywhere except in the upper parts of the buildings. Conan knew that most of the people lay on the flat roofs, among the palms of artificial gardens beneath the stars. A murmur of strange music drifted from somewhere. Occasionally a bronze chariot rumbled along the flags, offering a brief glimpse of a tall, hawk-faced noble with a silk cloak wrapped about him and a gold band bearing a rearing serpent-head emblem confining his black mane; and of the ebon, naked charioteer bracing his knotty legs against the strain of the fierce Stygian horses.

But those who still traversed the streets on foot were commoners—slaves, tradesmen, harlots, toilers—and they grew fewer as he advanced. He was making his way toward the temple of Set, where he knew he would likely find the priest he sought. He believed he would recognize Thutothmes if he saw him, though his one glimpse had been in the semi-darkness of the Messantian alley. That the man he had seen there had been the priest he was certain. Only occultists high in the mazes of the hideous Black Ring possessed the power of the black hand that dealt death by its touch; and only such a man would dare defy Thoth-Amon, whom the western world knew only as a figure of terror and myth.

The street broadened, and Conan was aware that he was getting into the