Over the cloak drawn about his lower features, the Stygian’s piercing eyes regarded Conan sharply. With his left hand he made a curious gesture. On a venture, Conan imitated it. But evidently another gesture was expected; the Stygian’s right hand came from under his cloak with a gleam of steel, and his murderous stab would have pierced the heart of an ordinary man.  

But he was dealing with one whose thews were nerved to the quickness of a jungle cat. Even as the dagger flashed in the dim light, Conan caught the dusky wrist and smashed his clenched right fist against the Stygian’s jaw. The man’s head struck the stone wall with a dull crunch that told of a fractured skull.  

Standing for an instant above him, Conan listened intently. The cresset burned low, casting vague shadows about the door. Nothing stirred in the blackness beyond, though far away and below him, as it seemed, he caught the faint, muffled note of a gong.  

He stooped and dragged the body behind the great bronze door, which stood wide, opened inward, and then the Cimmerian went warily but swiftly down the corridor, toward what doom he did not even try to guess.  

He had not gone far when he halted, baffled. The corridor split into two branches, and he had no way of knowing which the masked priests had taken. On a venture he chose the left. The floor slanted slightly downward and was worn smooth as by many feet. Here and there a dim cresset cast a faint, nightmarish twilight. Conan wondered uneasily for what purpose these colossal piles had been reared, and in what forgotten age. This was an ancient, ancient land. No man knew how many ages the black temples of Stygia had looked against the stars.  

Narrow black arches opened occasionally to right and left, but he kept to the main corridor, though a conviction that he had taken the wrong branch was growing in him. Even with their start, he should have overtaken the priests by now. He was growing nervous. The silence was like a tangible thing, and yet he felt he was not alone. More than once, passing a shadowed arch, he seemed to feel the glare of unseen eyes fixed upon him. He paused, half-minded to turn back to where the corridor had first branched. He wheeled abruptly, knife lifted, every nerve tingling.  

A girl stood at the mouth of a smaller tunnel, staring fixedly at him. Her ivory skin showed her to be Stygian of some ancient noble family, and like all such women she was tall, lithe, voluptuously formed, her hair a great pile of black foam among which gleamed a sparkling ruby. But for her velvet sandals and the broad jewel-crusted girdle about her supple waist, she was quite nude.  

‘What do you here?’ she demanded.  

To answer would betray his alien origin. He remained motionless, a grim, somber figure in the hideous mask with its floating plumes. His alert gaze searched the shadows behind her and found them empty. But there might be hordes of fighting-men within her call.  

She advanced toward him, apparently without fear, though with suspicion.  

‘You are not a priest,’ she said. ‘You are a fighting-man. Even with that mask, that is plain. There is as much difference between you and a priest as between a man and a woman. By Set!’ she exclaimed suddenly, her eyes flaring wide. ‘I do not believe you are even a Stygian!’  

With a movement too swift for the eye to follow, his hand closed about her round throat, lightly as a caress.  

‘Not a sound out of you!’ he muttered.  

Her smooth ivory flesh was cold as marble, yet there was no fear in the wide, dark, marvelous eyes that regarded him.  

‘Do not fear,’ she answered calmly. ‘I will not betray you. But are you mad to come, a stranger and a foreigner, to the forbidden temple of Set?’  

‘I’m looking for the priest Thutothmes,’ he answered. ‘Is he in this temple?’  

‘Why do you seek him?’ she parried.  

‘He has something of mine that was stolen.’  

‘I will lead you to him,’ she volunteered so promptly that his suspicions were instantly roused.  

‘Don’t play with me, girl,’ he growled.  

‘I do not play with you. I have no love for Thutothmes.’  

He hesitated, then made up his mind; after all, he was as much in her power as she was in his.  

‘Walk beside me,’ he commanded, shifting his grasp from her throat to her wrist. ‘But walk with care. If you make a suspicious move—’  

She led him down the slanting corridor, down and down, until there were no more cressets, and he groped his way in darkness, aware less by sight than by feel and sense of the woman at his side. Once, when he spoke to her, she turned her head toward him, and he was startled to see her eyes glowing like golden fire in the dark. Dim doubts and vague, monstrous suspicions haunted his mind, but he followed her through a labyrinthine maze of black corridors that confused even his primitive sense of direction. He mentally cursed himself for a fool, allowing himself to be led into that black abode of mystery; but it was too late to turn back now. Again he felt life and movement in the darkness about him, sensed peril and hunger burning impatiently in the blackness. Unless his ears deceived him, he caught a faint sliding noise that ceased and receded at a muttered command from the girl.  

She led him at last into a chamber lighted by a curious seven-branched candelabrum in which black candles burned weirdly. He knew they were far below the earth. The chamber was square, with walls and ceiling of polished black marble, and furnished after the manner of the ancient Stygians. There was a couch of ebony covered with black velvet, and on a black stone dais lay a carven mummy-case.  

Conan stood waiting expectantly, staring at the various black arches that opened into the chamber. But the girl made no move to go farther. Stretching herself on the couch with feline suppleness, she intertwined her fingers behind her sleek head and regarded him from under long, drooping lashes.  

‘Well?’ he demanded impatiently. ‘What are you doing? Where’s Thutothmes?’  

‘There is no haste,’ she answered lazily. ‘What is an hour—or a day, or a year, or a century, for that matter? Take off your mask. Let me see your features.’  

With a grunt of annoyance, Conan dragged off the bulky headpiece, and the girl nodded as if in approval as she scanned his dark, scarred face and blazing eyes.  