“There is strength in you—great strength; you could strangle a bullock.”  

He moved restlessly, suspicion growing. With his hand on his hilt, he peered into the gloomy arches.  

“If you’ve brought me into a trap,” he said, “you won’t live to enjoy your handiwork. Are you going to get off that couch and do as you promised, or do I have to—”  

His voice trailed away. He was staring at the mummy case, on which the countenance of the occupant was carved in ivory with the startling vividness of a forgotten art. There was a disquieting familiarity about that carven mask, and with a shock he realized what it was: there was a striking resemblance between it and the face of the girl lounging on the ebon couch. She might have been the model from which it was carved, yet he knew the portrait was at least centuries old. Archaic hieroglyphics were scrawled across the lacquered lid, and, reaching back into his mind for fragments of learning gathered here and there through an adventurous life, he spelled them out and said aloud: “Akivasha!”  

“You have heard of Princess Akivasha?” inquired the girl on the couch.  

“Who hasn’t?” he grunted. The name of that ancient, evil, beautiful princess still lived across the world in song and legend, though ten thousand years had passed since the daughter of Tuthamon had reveled in purple feasts amid the black halls of ancient Luxur.  

“Her only sin was that she loved life and all its meanings,” said the Stygian girl. “To win life she courted death. She could not bear to think of growing old and shriveled and worn, and dying at last as hags die. She wooed Darkness like a lover, and his gift was life—life that, not being life as mortals know it, can never grow old or fade. She went into the shadows to cheat age and death—”  

Conan glared at her, his eyes suddenly burning slits. He wheeled and tore the lid from the sarcophagus. It was empty. Behind him the girl was laughing, and the sound froze the blood in his veins. He whirled back to her, the short hairs on his neck bristling.  

“You are Akivasha!” he grated.  

She laughed and shook back her burnished locks, spreading her arms sensuously.  

“I am Akivasha! I am the woman who never died, who never grew old! Fools say I was lifted from the earth by the gods, in the full bloom of youth and beauty, to reign forever in some celestial clime! Nay, it is in the shadows that mortals find immortality! Ten thousand years ago I died to live forever! Give me your lips, strong man!”  

Rising lithely, she came to him, rose on tiptoe, and flung her arms about his massive neck. Scowling down into her upturned, beautiful face, he felt both a fearful fascination and an icy dread.  

“Love me!” she whispered, head thrown back, eyes closed, lips parted. “Give me of your blood to renew my youth and perpetuate my everlasting life! I will make you, too, immortal! I will teach you the wisdom of all the ages, all the secrets that have endured through the eons in the blackness beneath these dark temples. I will make you king of that shadowy horde which revels among the tombs of the ancients when night veils the desert and bats flit across the moon. I am weary of priests and magicians, and of captive girls dragged screaming through the portals of death. I desire a man. Love me, barbarian!”  

She pressed her dark head against his mighty breast, and he felt a sharp pang at the base of his throat. With a curse he tore her away and flung her sprawling across the couch.  

“Damned vampire!” Blood was trickling from a tiny wound in his throat.  

She reared up on the couch like a serpent poised to strike, all the golden fires of hell blazing in her wide eyes. Her lips drew back, revealing white, pointed teeth.  

“Fool!” she shrieked. “Do you think to escape me? You will live and die in darkness! I have brought you far below the temple. You can never find your way out alone. You can never cut your way through those that guard the tunnels. But for my protection, the sons of Set would long ago have taken you into their bellies. Fool, I shall yet drink your blood!”  

“Keep away from me or I’ll slash you asunder,” he grunted, his flesh crawling with revulsion. “You may be immortal, but steel will dismember you.”  

As he backed toward the arch through which he had entered, the light went out suddenly. All the candles were extinguished at once, though he did not know how, for Akivasha had not touched them. But the vampire’s laugh rose mockingly behind him, poison-sweet as the viols of hell, and he sweated as he groped in the darkness for the arch in near panic. His fingers found an opening and he plunged through it. Whether it was the arch through which he had entered he did not know, nor did he much care. His only thought was to escape the haunted chamber that had housed that beautiful, hideous, undead fiend for so many centuries.  

His wanderings through those black, winding tunnels were a sweating nightmare. Behind and around him he heard faint slitherings and glidings, and once the echo of that sweet, hellish laughter he had heard in the chamber of Akivasha. He slashed ferociously at sounds and movements he heard—or imagined he heard—in the darkness near him, and once his sword cut through some yielding, tenuous substance that might have been cobwebs. He had a desperate feeling that he was being toyed with, lured deeper and deeper into ultimate night before being set upon by demoniac talon and fang.  

And through his fear ran the sickening revulsion of his discovery. The legend of Akivasha was so old, and among the evil tales told of her ran a thread of beauty and idealism—of everlasting youth. To so many dreamers, poets, and lovers she was not merely the evil princess of Stygian legend, but the symbol of eternal youth and beauty, shining forever in some far realm of the gods. And this was the hideous reality. This foul perversion was the truth of that everlasting life. Through his physical revulsion ran the sense of a shattered dream of man’s idolatry—its glittering gold proved slime and cosmic filth. A wave of futility swept over him, a dim fear of the falseness of all men’s dreams and idolatries.  