And now he knew that his ears were not deceiving him. He was being followed, and his pursuers were closing in. In the darkness came shufflings and slidings that no human feet could have made—nor the feet of any normal animal. Perhaps the underworld had its own bestial life. They were behind him. He turned to face them, though he could see nothing, and slowly backed away. Then the sounds ceased, even before he turned his head and saw, somewhere down the long corridor, a faint glow of light.  

19 - IN THE HALL OF THE DEAD  
In the Hall of the Dead  

Conan moved cautiously toward the light he had glimpsed, his ear cocked over his shoulder, but there was no further sound of pursuit, though he felt the darkness alive with unseen presence.  

The glow was not stationary; it moved, bobbing grotesquely along. Then he saw its source. The tunnel he followed crossed another, wider corridor some distance ahead. Along this latter passage filed a bizarre procession—four tall, gaunt men in black hooded robes, leaning on staffs. The leader held a torch above his head, a torch that burned with a strange, steady glow. Like phantoms they passed across his limited range of vision and vanished, leaving only a fading glimmer to mark their passing. Their appearance was indescribably eldritch. They were not Stygians, nor like anything Conan had ever seen. He doubted they were even human. They were like black ghosts, stalking ghoulishly through the haunted tunnels.  

But his position could be no more desperate than it already was. Before the inhuman feet behind him could resume their slithering advance as the distant light faded, Conan was running down the corridor. He plunged into the other tunnel and saw, far ahead, small in the distance, the weird procession moving within the glowing sphere. He stole noiselessly after them, then shrank suddenly back against the wall as he saw them halt and cluster together as if conferring. They turned as though to retrace their steps, and he slipped into the nearest archway. Groping in the darkness—by now so familiar that he could almost see through it—he discovered that the tunnel curved, and he fell back beyond the first bend so that the strangers’ light would not fall upon him as they passed.  

As he stood there, he became aware of a low hum from somewhere behind him, like the murmur of human voices. Moving down the corridor in that direction, he confirmed his suspicion. Abandoning his intention of following the ghoulish travelers to their destination, he set out toward the voices.  

Presently he saw a glint of light ahead, and turning into the corridor from which it came, he saw a broad arch filled with a dim glow at the far end. On his left, a narrow stone stair rose upward, and instinctive caution prompted him to turn and climb. The voices he heard came from beyond that flame-lit arch.  

The sounds faded beneath him as he ascended, and presently he emerged through a low arched door into a vast open space glowing with a weird radiance.  

He stood on a shadowy gallery overlooking a broad, dim-lit hall of colossal proportions—a hall of the dead, seen only by the silent priests of Stygia. Along the black walls rose tier upon tier of carved and painted sarcophagi. Each stood in a niche in the dusky stone, and the tiers mounted higher and higher until they were lost in the gloom above. Thousands of carven masks stared impassively down upon the group in the center of the hall, rendering them futile and insignificant before that vast array of the dead.  

Of this group, ten were priests, and though they had discarded their masks, Conan knew they were the same he had accompanied to the pyramid. They stood before a tall, hawk-faced man beside a black altar on which lay a mummy in rotting wrappings. The altar seemed to stand in the heart of a living fire that pulsed and shimmered, dripping flakes of quivering golden flame onto the black stones around it. This dazzling glow emanated from a great red jewel resting upon the altar, and in its reflection the faces of the priests looked ashen and corpse-like. As he watched, Conan felt the weight of all the weary leagues and sleepless nights of his long quest, and he trembled with the mad urge to rush among those silent priests, hew a path with naked steel, and seize the red gem with passion-taut fingers. But he mastered himself with iron control and crouched in the shadow of the stone balustrade. A glance showed him that a stair led down into the hall from the gallery, hugging the wall and half hidden in shadow. He glared into the dimness of the vast chamber, seeking other priests or votaries, but saw only the group about the altar.  

In that great emptiness, the voice of the man beside the altar sounded hollow and ghostly:  

“…And so the word came southward. The night wind whispered it, the ravens croaked of it as they flew, and the grim bats told it to the owls and the serpents that lurk in hoary ruins. Werewolf and vampire knew, and the ebon-bodied demons that prowl by night. The sleeping Night of the World stirred and shook its heavy mane, and there began a throbbing of drums in deep darkness, and the echoes of far, weird cries frightened men who walked by dusk. For the Heart of Ahriman had come again into the world to fulfill its cryptic destiny.  

“Ask me not how I, Thutothmes of Khemi and the Night, heard the word before Thoth-Amon, who calls himself prince of all wizards. There are secrets not meant for such ears as yours, and Thoth-Amon is not the only lord of the Black Ring.  

“I knew, and I went to meet the Heart as it came southward. It was like a magnet drawing me unerringly. From death to death it came, riding on a river of human blood. Blood feeds it; blood draws it. Its power is greatest when there is blood on the hands that grasp it—when it is wrested by slaughter from its holder. Wherever it gleams, blood is spilled and kingdoms totter, and the forces of nature are thrown into turmoil.  

“And here I stand, master of the Heart, and have summoned you secretly, who are faithful to me, to share in the black kingdom that shall be. Tonight you shall witness the breaking of Thoth-Amon’s chains that enslave us, and the birth of empire.”  