The staff lashed out like the dart of a viper, but the slash of Conan’s knife was quicker. The staff fell in writhing halves; there was another flicker of keen steel, like a jet of lightning, and the head of the Khitan rolled to the floor.  

Conan wheeled and extended his hand toward the jewel—then shrank back, his hair bristling, his blood congealing icily.  

For no longer did a withered brown thing lie on the altar. The jewel shimmered on the full, arching breast of a naked, living man who lay among the moldering bandages. Living? Conan could not decide. The eyes were like dark, murky glass beneath which glowed inhuman, somber fires.  

Slowly the man rose, taking the jewel in his hand. He towered beside the altar, dusky and naked, with a face like a carven image. Mutely he extended his hand toward Conan, the jewel throbbing like a living heart within it. Conan took it, with an eerie sensation of receiving a gift from the hand of the dead. Somehow he realized that the proper incantations had not been spoken—the conjuration was incomplete—life had not been fully restored to the corpse.  

“Who are you?” demanded the Cimmerian.  

The answer came in a toneless monotone, like water dripping from stalactites in subterranean caverns. “I was Thothmekri; I am dead.”  

“Well, lead me out of this accursed temple, will you?” Conan requested, his flesh crawling.  

With measured, mechanical steps, the dead man moved toward a black arch. Conan followed. A glance back showed him once again the vast, shadowy hall with its tiers of sarcophagi, the dead men sprawled about the altar; the head of the Khitan he had slain stared sightless up at the sweeping shadows.  

The glow of the jewel illuminated the black tunnels like an ensorcelled lamp dripping golden fire. Once Conan caught a glimpse of ivory flesh in the shadows—he thought he saw the vampire Akivasha shrinking back from the jewel’s glow; and with her, other less human shapes scuttled or shambled into the darkness.  

The dead man strode straight on, looking neither right nor left, his pace as changeless as the tramp of doom. Cold sweat gathered thick on Conan’s flesh. Icy doubts assailed him. How could he know that this terrible figure out of the past was leading him to freedom? Yet he knew that, left to himself, he could never untangle this bewitched maze of corridors and tunnels. He followed his dreadful guide through blackness that loomed before and behind them, filled with skulking shapes of horror and lunacy that cringed from the blinding glow of the Heart.  

Then the bronze doorway was before him. Conan felt the night wind blowing across the desert and saw the stars, and the starlit sands across which streamed the great black shadow of the pyramid. Thothmekri pointed silently into the desert, then turned and stalked soundlessly back into the darkness. Conan stared after that silent figure receding into the blackness on inexorable, soundless feet, as one who moves to a known and inevitable doom—or returns to everlasting sleep.  

With a curse, the Cimmerian leaped from the doorway and fled into the desert as if pursued by demons. He did not look back toward the pyramid or the black towers of Khemi looming dimly across the sands. He headed southward toward the coast, running as a man runs in ungovernable panic. The violent exertion shook his brain free of black cobwebs; the clean desert wind blew the nightmares from his soul, and his revulsion changed to a wild tide of exultation before the desert gave way to a tangle of swampy growth through which he saw the black water lying before him—and the Venturer at anchor.  

He plunged through the undergrowth, hip-deep in the marshes; dived headlong into the deep water, heedless of sharks or crocodiles, and swam to the galley. He was clambering up the chain onto the deck, dripping and exultant, before the watch saw him.  

“Awake, you dogs!” roared Conan, knocking aside the spear the startled lookout thrust at his breast. “Heave up the anchor! Lay to the oars! Give that fisherman a helmet full of gold and put him ashore! Dawn will soon be breaking, and before sunrise we must be racing for the nearest port of Zingara!”  

He whirled the great jewel above his head, and it threw off splashes of light that spotted the deck with golden fire.  

20 – OUT OF THE DUST SHALL ACHERON ARISE  
Out of the Dust Shall Acheron Arise  

Winter had passed from Aquilonia. Leaves sprang out on the limbs of trees, and the fresh grass smiled to the touch of the warm southern breezes. But many a field lay idle and empty; many a charred heap of ashes marked the spot where proud villas or prosperous towns had stood. Wolves prowled openly along the grass-grown highways, and bands of gaunt, masterless men slunk through the forests. Only in Tarantia were there feasting, wealth, and pageantry.  

Valerius ruled like one touched with madness. Even many of the barons who had welcomed his return cried out at last against him. His tax-gatherers crushed rich and poor alike; the wealth of a looted kingdom poured into Tarantia, which became less the capital of a realm than the garrison of conquerors in a conquered land. Its merchants grew rich, but it was a precarious prosperity, for none knew when he might be accused of treason on a trumped-up charge, his property confiscated, himself cast into prison or brought to the bloody block.  

Valerius made no attempt to conciliate his subjects. He maintained himself by means of the Nemedian soldiery and desperate mercenaries. He knew himself to be a puppet of Amalric, ruling only by the Nemedian’s sufferance. He knew he could never hope to unite Aquilonia under his rule and cast off the yoke of his masters, for the outland provinces would resist him to the last drop of blood. And the Nemedians would cast him from his throne if he attempted to consolidate his kingdom. He was caught in his own vise. The gall of defeated pride corroded his soul, and he threw himself into a reign of debauchery, living from day to day without thought or care for tomorrow.  

Yet there was subtlety in his madness, so deep that not even Amalric guessed it. Perhaps the wild, chaotic years of exile had bred in him a bitterness beyond common conception. Perhaps his loathing of his present position deepened that bitterness into madness. Whatever the cause, he lived with one desire: to bring ruin upon all who associated with him.  