He knew that his rule would end the instant he had served Amalric’s purpose. He knew, too, that as long as he continued to oppress his native kingdom, the Nemedian would allow him to reign, for Amalric wished to crush Aquilonia into utter submission, to destroy its last shred of independence, and then seize it for himself—rebuilding it in his own fashion with his vast wealth, and using its men and resources to wrest the crown of Nemedia from Tarascus. For the throne of an emperor was Amalric’s ultimate ambition, and Valerius knew it. Valerius did not know whether Tarascus suspected this, but he knew that the king of Nemedia approved of his ruthless course. Tarascus hated Aquilonia with a hatred born of old wars. He desired only the destruction of the western kingdom.  

And Valerius intended to ruin the country so utterly that not even Amalric’s wealth could ever rebuild it. He hated the baron as much as he hated the Aquilonians, and hoped only to live to see the day when Aquilonia lay in utter ruin, and Tarascus and Amalric were locked in a hopeless civil war that would as completely destroy Nemedia.  

He believed that the conquest of the still-defiant provinces of Gunderland, Poitain, and the Bossonian Marches would mark the end of his reign. He would then have served Amalric’s purpose and could be discarded. So he delayed the conquest of these provinces, confining his activities to aimless raids and forays, meeting Amalric’s demands for action with plausible objections and postponements.  

His life became a series of feasts and wild debauches. He filled his palace with the fairest girls of the kingdom, willing or unwilling. He blasphemed the gods and sprawled drunken on the banquet hall floor, wearing the golden crown and staining his royal purple robes with spilled wine. In fits of bloodlust he festooned the gallows in the market square with dangling corpses, glutted the axes of the headsmen, and sent his Nemedian horsemen thundering through the land, pillaging and burning. Driven to madness, the realm was in constant upheaval—frantic revolts savagely suppressed. Valerius plundered, raped, looted, and destroyed until even Amalric protested, warning him that he would beggar the kingdom beyond repair, not knowing that such was Valerius’s fixed determination.  

But while in both Aquilonia and Nemedia men spoke of the king’s madness, in Nemedia they spoke much of Xaltotun, the masked one. Yet few saw him in the streets of Belverus. Men said he spent much time in the hills, in strange conclaves with surviving remnants of an ancient race—dark, silent folk who claimed descent from a forgotten kingdom. Men whispered of drums beating far up in the dreaming hills, of fires glowing in the darkness, and of strange chantings borne on the wind—rituals forgotten for centuries, remembered only as meaningless formulas mumbled beside mountain hearths in villages whose inhabitants differed strangely from the people of the valleys.  

The reason for these gatherings none knew, unless it was Orastes, who often accompanied the Pythonian, and on whose face a haggard shadow was growing.  

But in the full flood of spring, a sudden whisper passed over the sinking kingdom and woke the land to eager life. It came like a murmurous wind drifting up from the south, stirring men sunk in the apathy of despair. Yet none could truly say how it began. Some spoke of a strange, grim old woman who came down from the mountains with her hair streaming in the wind and a great gray wolf following her like a dog. Others whispered of the priests of Asura, who stole like furtive phantoms from Gunderland to the marches of Poitain and the forest villages of the Bossonians.  

However the word came, revolt ran like flame along the borders. Outlying Nemedian garrisons were stormed and put to the sword; foraging parties were cut to pieces; the west was up in arms. There was a different air about this rising—a fierce resolution and inspired wrath rather than the frantic despair that had driven earlier revolts. It was not only the common people; barons were fortifying their castles and hurling defiance at the provincial governors. Bands of Bossonians were seen moving along the edges of the marches—stocky, resolute men in brigandines and steel caps, longbows in hand. From the inert stagnation of dissolution and ruin, the realm was suddenly alive, vibrant, and dangerous. So Amalric sent in haste for Tarascus, who came with an army.  

* * * * *  

In the royal palace at Tarantia, the two kings and Amalric discussed the rising. They had not sent for Xaltotun, immersed as he was in his cryptic studies in the Nemedian hills. Not since that bloody day in the valley of the Valkia had they called upon him for aid through his magic, and he had drawn apart, communing little with them, seemingly indifferent to their intrigues.  

Nor had they sent for Orastes, but he came—and he was white as spume blown before the storm. He stood in the gold-domed chamber where the kings held council, and they beheld in amazement his haggard stare, the fear they had never imagined the mind of Orastes could hold.  

“You are weary, Orastes,” said Amalric. “Sit upon this divan and I will have a slave fetch you wine. You have ridden hard—”  

Orastes waved aside the invitation.  

“I have killed three horses on the road from Belverus. I cannot drink wine, I cannot rest, until I have said what I must say.”  

He paced back and forth as if some inner fire would not let him stand still, then halted before his wondering companions.  

“When we employed the Heart of Ahriman to bring a dead man back to life,” Orastes said abruptly, “we did not weigh the consequences of tampering with the black dust of the past. The fault is mine—and the sin. We thought only of our ambitions, forgetting what ambitions this man might have. And we have loosed a demon upon the earth, a fiend beyond human comprehension. I have plumbed deep into evil, but there is a limit to which I—or any man of my race and age—can go. My ancestors were clean men, without demoniacal taint; it is only I who have sunk into the pits, and I can sin only to the extent of my own individuality. But behind Xaltotun lie a thousand centuries of black magic and diabolism, an ancient tradition of evil. He is beyond our conception not only because he is a wizard himself, but because he is the son of a race of wizards.”  