"I have seen things that have blasted my soul. In the heart of the slumbering hills, I have watched Xaltotun commune with the souls of the damned and invoke the ancient demons of forgotten Acheron. I have seen the cursed descendants of that accursed empire worship him and hail him as their arch-priest. I have seen what he plots—and I tell you, it is nothing less than the restoration of the ancient, black, grisly kingdom of Acheron!"

"What do you mean?" demanded Amalric. "Acheron is dust. There are not enough remnants to form an empire. Not even Xaltotun can reshape the dust of three thousand years."

"You know little of his black powers," answered Orastes grimly. "I have seen the very hills take on an alien and ancient aspect under the spell of his incantations. I have glimpsed, like shadows behind reality, the dim shapes and outlines of valleys, forests, mountains, and lakes—not as they are today, but as they were in that dim yesterday. I have even sensed, rather than seen, the purple towers of forgotten Python shimmering like figures of mist in the dusk.

"And in the last conclave I attended with him, understanding of his sorcery came to me at last, while the drums beat and the beast-like worshippers howled with their heads in the dust. I tell you, he would restore Acheron by his magic—by the sorcery of a gigantic blood-sacrifice such as the world has never seen. He would enslave the world, and with a deluge of blood wash away the present and restore the past!"

"You are mad!" exclaimed Tarascus.

"Mad?" Orastes turned a haggard stare upon him. "Can any man see what I have seen and remain wholly sane? Yet I speak the truth. He plots the return of Acheron, with its towers, wizards, kings, and horrors, as it was in the long ago. The descendants of Acheron will serve him as a nucleus upon which to build, but it is the blood and bodies of the people of the world today that will furnish the mortar and stones for the rebuilding. I cannot tell you how. My own brain reels when I try to understand. But I have seen! Acheron will be Acheron again, and even the hills, forests, and rivers will resume their ancient aspect. Why not? If I, with my meager store of knowledge, could bring to life a man dead three thousand years, why cannot the greatest wizard in the world bring back to life a kingdom dead three thousand years? Out of the dust shall Acheron arise at his bidding."

"How can we thwart him?" asked Tarascus, impressed.

"There is but one way," answered Orastes. "We must steal the Heart of Ahriman!"

"But I—" began Tarascus involuntarily, then closed his mouth quickly.

None had noticed him, and Orastes continued.

"It is a power that can be used against him. With it in my hands, I might defy him. But how shall we steal it? He has it hidden in some secret place, from which not even a Zamorian thief could filch it. I cannot learn its hiding place. If only he would sleep again the sleep of the black lotus—but the last time he slept thus was after the battle of Valkia, when he was weary from the great magic he had performed, and—"

The door was locked and bolted, yet it swung silently open, and Xaltotun stood before them—calm, tranquil, stroking his patriarchal beard—but the lambent lights of hell flickered in his eyes.

"I have taught you too much," he said calmly, pointing a finger like an index of doom at Orastes. Before any could move, he cast a handful of dust on the floor near the priest’s feet. Orastes stood like a man turned to marble. The dust flamed and smoldered; a blue serpentine of smoke rose and swayed upward about Orastes in a slender spiral. When it had risen above his shoulders, it curled about his neck with a whipping suddenness like the stroke of a snake. Orastes’ scream was choked to a gurgle. His hands flew to his neck, his eyes distended, his tongue protruded. The smoke was like a blue rope about his throat; then it faded and was gone, and Orastes slumped to the floor, dead.

Xaltotun smote his hands together, and two men entered—men often seen accompanying him: small, repulsively dark, with red, oblique eyes and pointed, rat-like teeth. They did not speak. Lifting the corpse, they bore it away.

Dismissing the matter with a wave of his hand, Xaltotun seated himself at the ivory table around which the pale kings sat.

"Why are you in conclave?" he demanded.

"The Aquilonians have risen in the west," answered Amalric, recovering from the grisly shock of Orastes’ death. "The fools believe that Conan is alive and coming at the head of a Poitanian army to reclaim his kingdom. If he had reappeared immediately after Valkia, or if a rumor had spread that he lived, the central provinces would not have risen under him—they feared your powers too much. But they have grown so desperate under Valerius’ misrule that they are ready to follow any man who can unite them against us, preferring sudden death to torture and continual misery.

"Of course, the tale has lingered stubbornly that Conan was not truly slain at Valkia, but only recently have the masses accepted it. Pallantides has returned from exile in Ophir, swearing that the king was ill in his tent that day, and that a man-at-arms wore his harness. A squire who only recently recovered from a mace stroke received at Valkia confirms his tale—or pretends to.

"An old woman with a pet wolf has wandered up and down the land, proclaiming that King Conan yet lives and will return to reclaim the crown. And of late, the cursed priests of Asura sing the same song. They claim that word has come to them by some mysterious means that Conan is returning to reconquer his domain. I cannot catch either her or them. This is, of course, a trick of Trocero’s. My spies tell me there is indisputable evidence that the Poitanians are gathering to invade Aquilonia. I believe Trocero will bring forward some pretender whom he will claim is King Conan."

Tarascus laughed, but there was no conviction in his laughter. He surreptitiously felt a scar beneath his jupon and remembered the ravens that cawed on the trail of a fugitive; remembered the body of his squire, Arideus, brought back from the border mountains, horribly mangled—by a great gray wolf, his terrified soldiers had said. But he also remembered a red jewel stolen from a golden chest while a wizard slept, and he said nothing.