And Valerius remembered a dying nobleman who had gasped out a tale of fear, and he remembered four Khitans who had vanished into the southern mazes and never returned. But he held his tongue, for hatred and suspicion of his allies gnawed at him like a worm, and he desired nothing so much as to see both rebels and Nemedians perish, locked in a death grip.

But Amalric exclaimed, “It is absurd to dream that Conan lives!”

In answer, Xaltotun cast a roll of parchment upon the table.

Amalric snatched it up and glared at it. From his lips burst a furious, incoherent cry. He read:

     To Xaltotun, grand fakir of Nemedia: Dog of Acheron, I am
     returning to my kingdom, and I mean to hang your hide on a
     bramble.

     Conan

“A forgery!” cried Amalric.

Xaltotun shook his head.

“It is genuine. I have compared it with the signature on the royal documents preserved in the court libraries. None could imitate that bold scrawl.”

“Then if Conan lives,” muttered Amalric, “this uprising will not be like the others, for he is the only man alive who can unite the Aquilonians. But,” he protested, “this is not like Conan. Why should he put us on our guard with his boasting? One would think he would strike without warning, after the fashion of the barbarians.”

“We are already warned,” pointed out Xaltotun. “Our spies have told us of preparations for war in Poitain. He could not cross the mountains without our knowledge, so he sends me his defiance in characteristic fashion.”

“Why to you?” demanded Valerius. “Why not to me, or to Tarascus?”

Xaltotun turned his inscrutable gaze upon the king.

“Conan is wiser than you,” he said at last. “He already knows what you kings have yet to learn—that it is not Tarascus, nor Valerius, nor Amalric, but Xaltotun who is the true master of the western nations.”

They did not reply; they sat staring at him, assailed by a numbing realization of the truth of his words.

“There is no road for me but the imperial highway,” said Xaltotun. “But first we must crush Conan. I do not know how he escaped me at Belverus, for knowledge of what happened while I lay in the slumber of the black lotus is denied me. But he is in the south, gathering an army. It is his last desperate blow, made possible only by the despair of the people who have suffered under Valerius. Let them rise; I hold them all in the palm of my hand. We will wait until he moves against us, and then we will crush him once and for all.

“Then we shall crush Poitain and Gunderland and the stupid Bossonians. After them, Ophir, Argos, Zingara, Koth—all the nations of the world we shall weld into one vast empire. You shall rule as my satraps, and as my captains you shall be greater than kings are now. I am unconquerable, for the Heart of Ahriman is hidden where no man can ever wield it against me again.”

Tarascus averted his gaze, lest Xaltotun read his thoughts. He knew the wizard had not looked into the golden chest with its carven serpents that had seemed to sleep since he laid the Heart within. Strange as it seemed, Xaltotun did not know that the Heart had been stolen; the strange jewel was beyond or outside the circle of his dark wisdom. His uncanny powers did not warn him that the chest was empty. Tarascus did not believe that Xaltotun knew the full extent of Orastes’ revelations, for the Pythonian had not mentioned the restoration of Acheron, but only the building of a new earthly empire. Tarascus did not believe that Xaltotun was yet certain of his power; if they needed his aid for their ambitions, no less did he need theirs. Magic depended, after all, to some extent on sword strokes and lance thrusts. The king read meaning in Amalric’s furtive glance: let the wizard use his arts to help them defeat their most dangerous enemy. Time enough then to turn against him. There might yet be a way to cheat this dark power they had raised.

21 - DRUMS OF PERIL  
Drums of Peril

Confirmation of the war came when the army of Poitain, ten thousand strong, marched through the southern passes with waving banners and the shimmer of steel. And at their head, the spies swore, rode a giant figure in black armor, with the royal lion of Aquilonia worked in gold upon the breast of his rich silken surcoat. Conan lived! The king lived! There was no doubt of it in men’s minds now, whether friend or foe.

With the news of the invasion from the south came word, brought by hard-riding couriers, that a host of Gundermen was moving southward, reinforced by the barons of the northwest and the northern Bossonians. Tarascus marched with thirty-one thousand men to Galparan, on the river Shirki, which the Gundermen must cross to strike at the towns still held by the Nemedians. The Shirki was a swift, turbulent river rushing southwestward through rocky gorges and canyons, and there were few places where an army could cross at that time of year, when the stream was almost bank-full with the melting snows. All the country east of the Shirki was in the hands of the Nemedians, and it was logical to assume that the Gundermen would attempt to cross either at Galparan or at Tanasul, which lay to the south. Reinforcements were daily expected from Nemedia, until word came that the king of Ophir was making hostile demonstrations on Nemedia’s southern border, and to spare any more troops would expose Nemedia to the risk of invasion from the south.

Amalric and Valerius moved out from Tarantia with twenty-five thousand men, leaving as large a garrison as they dared to discourage revolts in the cities during their absence. They wished to meet and crush Conan before he could be joined by the rebellious forces of the kingdom.

The king and his Poitanians had crossed the mountains, but there had been no actual clash of arms, no attack on towns or fortresses. Conan had appeared and disappeared. Apparently, he had turned westward through the wild, thinly settled hill country and entered the Bossonian marches, gathering recruits as he went. Amalric and Valerius, with their host of Nemedians, Aquilonian renegades, and ferocious mercenaries, moved through the land in baffled wrath, searching for a foe who did not appear.