Amalric found it impossible to obtain more than vague, general tidings about Conan’s movements. Scouting parties had a way of riding out and never returning, and it was not uncommon to find a spy crucified to an oak. The countryside was up and striking as peasants and country folk strike—savagely, murderously, and secretly. All that Amalric knew for certain was that a large force of Gundermen and northern Bossonians was somewhere to the north of him, beyond the Shirki, and that Conan, with a smaller force of Poitanians and southern Bossonians, was somewhere to the southwest.  

He began to fear that if he and Valerius advanced farther into the wild country, Conan might elude them entirely, march around them, and invade the central provinces behind them. Amalric fell back from the Shirki valley and camped on a plain a day’s ride from Tanasul. There he waited. Tarascus maintained his position at Galparan, fearing that Conan’s maneuvers were meant to draw him southward and thus allow the Gundermen to enter the kingdom at the northern crossing.  

* * * * *  

To Amalric’s camp came Xaltotun in his chariot drawn by the uncanny horses that never tired. He entered Amalric’s tent, where the baron conferred with Valerius over a map spread on an ivory camp table.  

This map Xaltotun crumpled and flung aside.  

“What your scouts cannot learn for you,” quoth he, “my spies tell me—though their information is strangely blurred and imperfect, as if unseen forces were working against me.  

“Conan is advancing along the Shirki River with ten thousand Poitanians, three thousand southern Bossonians, and barons of the west and south with their retainers, numbering five thousand. An army of thirty thousand Gundermen and northern Bossonians is pushing southward to join him. They have established contact through secret communications used by the cursed priests of Asura, who seem to be opposing me—and whom I will feed to a serpent when the battle is over. I swear it by Set!  

“Both armies are headed for the crossing at Tanasul, but I do not believe the Gundermen will cross the river. I believe Conan will cross instead, and join them.”  

“Why should Conan cross the river?”  

“Because it is to his advantage to delay the battle. The longer he waits, the stronger he becomes, and the more precarious our position. The hills on the far side of the river swarm with people passionately loyal to his cause—broken men, refugees, fugitives from Valerius’ cruelty. From all over the kingdom men hurry to join his army, singly and in companies. Daily, parties from our forces are ambushed and cut to pieces by the country folk. Revolt grows in the central provinces and will soon burst into open rebellion. The garrisons we left there are insufficient, and we can hope for no reinforcements from Nemedia for the time being. I see the hand of Pallantides in this brawling on the Ophirean frontier—he has kin in Ophir.  

“If we do not catch and crush Conan quickly, the provinces will blaze with revolt behind us. We shall have to fall back to Tarantia to defend what we have taken, and we may have to fight our way through a rebellious land with Conan’s whole force at our heels, then stand siege in the city itself, with enemies within as well as without. No, we cannot wait. We must crush Conan before his army grows too great, before the central provinces rise. With his head hanging above the gate at Tarantia, you will see how quickly the rebellion will fall apart.”  

“Why do you not put a spell on his army to slay them all?” asked Valerius, half in mockery.  

Xaltotun stared at the Aquilonian as if reading the full extent of the mocking madness that lurked in those wayward eyes.  

“Do not worry,” he said at last. “My arts shall crush Conan finally, like a lizard under the heel. But even sorcery is aided by pikes and swords.”  

“If he crosses the river and takes up his position in the Goralian hills, he may be hard to dislodge,” said Amalric. “But if we catch him in the valley on this side of the river, we can wipe him out. How far is Conan from Tanasul?”  

“At the rate he is marching, he should reach the crossing sometime tomorrow night. His men are rugged, and he is pushing them hard. He should arrive there at least a day before the Gundermen.”  

“Good!” Amalric smote the table with his clenched fist. “I can reach Tanasul before he can. I’ll send a rider to Tarascus, bidding him follow me to Tanasul. By the time he arrives, I will have cut Conan off from the crossing and destroyed him. Then our combined force can cross the river and deal with the Gundermen.”  

Xaltotun shook his head impatiently.  

“A good enough plan if you were dealing with anyone but Conan. But your twenty-five thousand men are not enough to destroy his eighteen thousand before the Gundermen come up. They will fight with the desperation of wounded panthers. And suppose the Gundermen arrive while the hosts are locked in battle? You will be caught between two fires and destroyed before Tarascus can reach you. He will arrive too late to aid you.”  

“What then?” demanded Amalric.  

“Move with your whole strength against Conan,” answered the man from Acheron. “Send a rider bidding Tarascus join us here. We will wait for his coming. Then we will march together to Tanasul.”  

“But while we wait,” protested Amalric, “Conan will cross the river and join the Gundermen.”  

“Conan will not cross the river,” answered Xaltotun.  

Amalric’s head jerked up, and he stared into the cryptic dark eyes.  

“What do you mean?”  

“Suppose there were torrential rains far to the north, at the head of the Shirki? Suppose the river came down in such flood as to render the crossing at Tanasul impassable? Could we not then bring up our entire force at our leisure, catch Conan on this side of the river and crush him—and then, when the flood subsided, which I think it would do the next day, could we not cross the river and destroy the Gundermen? Thus we could use our full strength against each of these smaller forces in turn.”  

Valerius laughed, as he always laughed at the prospect of ruin for either friend or foe, and drew a restless hand jerkily through his unruly yellow locks. Amalric stared at the man from Acheron with mingled fear and admiration.  