‘If we caught Conan in the Shirki Valley, with the hill ridges to his right and the river in flood to his left,’ he admitted, ‘with our full force we could annihilate him. Do you think—are you sure—do you believe such rains will fall?’

‘I go to my tent,’ answered Xaltotun, rising. ‘Necromancy is not accomplished by the mere waving of a wand. Send a rider to Tarascus. And let none approach my tent.’

That last command was unnecessary. No man in that host could have been bribed to approach the mysterious black silken pavilion, whose door-flaps were always closely drawn. None but Xaltotun ever entered it, yet voices were often heard issuing from within; its walls sometimes billowed without a wind, and strange music drifted out. At times, deep in the midnight, its silken walls were lit red by flickering flames, limning misshapen silhouettes that passed to and fro.

Lying in his own tent that night, Amalric heard the steady rumble of a drum in Xaltotun’s tent; through the darkness it boomed, and at times the Nemedian could have sworn that a deep, croaking voice mingled with the pulse of the drum. He shuddered, for he knew that voice was not Xaltotun’s. The drum rustled and muttered on like distant thunder, and before dawn Amalric, glancing from his tent, caught the red flicker of lightning far off on the northern horizon. In all other parts of the sky the great stars blazed whitely, but the distant lightning flickered incessantly, like the crimson glint of firelight on a tiny, turning blade.

* * * * *

At sunset the next day Tarascus came up with his host, dusty and weary from hard marching, the footmen straggling hours behind the horsemen. They camped on the plain near Amalric’s encampment, and at dawn the combined army moved westward.

Ahead of them roved a swarm of scouts, and Amalric waited impatiently for their return, expecting word of the Poitanians trapped beside a raging flood. But when the scouts met the column, it was with the news that Conan had already crossed the river.

‘What?’ exclaimed Amalric. ‘Did he cross before the flood?’

‘There was no flood,’ answered the scouts, puzzled. ‘Late last night he came up to Tanasul and flung his army across.’

‘No flood?’ exclaimed Xaltotun, taken aback for the first time in Amalric’s knowledge. ‘Impossible! There were mighty rains upon the headwaters of the Shirki last night and the night before!’

‘That may be, my lord,’ answered the scout. ‘It’s true the water was muddy, and the people of Tanasul said the river rose perhaps a foot yesterday—but not enough to hinder Conan’s crossing.’

Xaltotun’s sorcery had failed! The thought hammered in Amalric’s brain. His horror of this strange man out of the past had grown steadily since that night in Belverus when he had seen a brown, shriveled mummy swell and grow into a living man. The death of Orastes had turned that lurking horror into active fear. In his heart was a grisly conviction that the man—or devil—was invincible. Yet now he had undeniable proof of failure.

Still, even the greatest of necromancers might falter at times, thought the baron. In any case, he dared not oppose the man from Acheron—yet. Orastes was dead, writhing in Mitra only knew what nameless hell, and Amalric knew his sword would scarcely prevail where the black wisdom of the renegade priest had failed. Whatever grisly abomination Xaltotun plotted lay in the unpredictable future. Conan and his host were a present menace, against which Xaltotun’s wizardry might still be needed before the game was done.

* * * * *

They came to Tanasul, a small fortified village where a reef of rocks formed a natural bridge across the river, passable except in times of greatest flood. Scouts brought word that Conan had taken up his position in the Goralian Hills, which began to rise a few miles beyond the river. And just before sundown, the Gundermen had arrived in his camp.

Amalric looked at Xaltotun, inscrutable and alien in the light of the flaring torches. Night had fallen.

‘What now? Your magic has failed. Conan confronts us with an army nearly as strong as our own, and he holds the advantage of position. We have a choice of two evils: to camp here and await his attack, or to fall back toward Tarantia and wait for reinforcements.’

‘We are ruined if we wait,’ answered Xaltotun. ‘Cross the river and camp on the plain. We will attack at dawn.’

‘But his position is too strong!’ exclaimed Amalric.

‘Fool!’ A gust of passion broke the veneer of the wizard’s calm. ‘Have you forgotten Valkia? Because some obscure elemental principle prevented the flood, do you deem me helpless? I had intended that your spears should exterminate our enemies; but do not fear—it is my arts that shall crush their host. Conan is in a trap. He will never see another sunset. Cross the river!’

They crossed by torchlight. The horses’ hoofs clinked on the rocky bridge and splashed through the shallows. The glint of the torches on shields and breastplates was reflected redly in the black water. The rock bridge was broad enough, yet it was past midnight before the host was camped on the plain beyond. Above them they could see fires winking redly in the distance. Conan had turned at bay in the Goralian Hills, which had more than once before served as the last stand of an Aquilonian king.

Amalric left his pavilion and strode restlessly through the camp. A weird glow flickered in Xaltotun’s tent, and from time to time a demoniacal cry slashed the silence, accompanied by the low, sinister muttering of a drum that rustled rather than rumbled.

Amalric, his instincts sharpened by the night and the circumstances, felt that Xaltotun was opposed by more than physical forces. Doubts of the wizard’s power assailed him. He glanced at the fires high above and his face hardened. He and his army were deep in hostile country. Up there among those hills lurked thousands of wolfish figures whose hearts and souls had been scourged of all emotion and hope except a frenzied hatred for their conquerors, a mad lust for vengeance. Defeat meant annihilation—retreat through a land swarming with blood-mad enemies. And on the morrow he must hurl his host against the grimmest fighter of the western nations and his desperate horde. If Xaltotun failed them now—