Half a dozen men-at-arms strode out of the shadows. The firelight glinted on their breastplates and helmet crests. Among them they half led, half dragged a gaunt figure in tattered rags.

Saluting, they spoke: “My lord, this man came to the outposts and said he desired word with King Valerius. He is an Aquilonian.”

He looked more like a wolf—a wolf scarred by traps. Old sores, the kind only fetters make, showed on his wrists and ankles. A great brand, the mark of hot iron, disfigured his face. His eyes glared through the tangle of his matted hair as he half crouched before the baron.

“Who are you, you filthy dog?” demanded the Nemedian.

“Call me Tiberias,” answered the man, his teeth clicking in an involuntary spasm. “I have come to tell you how to trap Conan.”

“A traitor, eh?” rumbled the baron.

“Men say you have gold,” mouthed the man, shivering under his rags. “Give some to me! Give me gold and I will show you how to defeat the king!” His eyes were wide and glassy; his outstretched, upturned hands spread like quivering claws.

Amalric shrugged his shoulder in distaste. But no tool was too base for his use.

“If you speak the truth, you shall have more gold than you can carry,” he said. “If you are a liar and a spy, I will have you crucified head-down. Bring him along.”

In the tent of Valerius, the baron pointed to the man who crouched shivering before them, huddling his rags about him.

“He says he knows a way to aid us on the morrow. We will need aid if Xaltotun’s plan is no better than it has proved so far. Speak on, dog.”

The man’s body writhed in strange convulsions. Words came in a stumbling rush:

“Conan camps at the head of the Valley of Lions. It is shaped like a fan, with steep hills on either side. If you attack him tomorrow, you will have to march straight up the valley. You cannot climb the hills on either side. But if King Valerius will deign to accept my service, I will guide him through the hills and show him how he can come upon King Conan from behind. But if it is to be done at all, we must start soon. It is many hours’ riding, for one must go miles to the west, then miles to the north, then turn eastward and so come into the Valley of Lions from behind, as the Gundermen came.”

Amalric hesitated, tugging his chin. In these chaotic times it was not rare to find men willing to sell their souls for a few gold pieces.

“If you lead me astray, you will die,” said Valerius. “You are aware of that, are you not?”

The man shivered, but his wide eyes did not waver.

“If I betray you, slay me!”

“Conan will not dare divide his force,” mused Amalric. “He will need all his men to repel our attack. He cannot spare any to lay ambushes in the hills. Besides, this fellow knows his hide depends on leading you as he promised. Would a dog like him sacrifice himself? Nonsense! No, Valerius, I believe the man is honest.”

“Or a greater thief than most, for he would sell his liberator,” laughed Valerius. “Very well. I will follow the dog. How many men can you spare me?”

“Five thousand should be enough,” answered Amalric. “A surprise attack on their rear will throw them into confusion, and that will be enough. I shall expect your attack about noon.”

“You will know when I strike,” answered Valerius.

As Amalric returned to his pavilion, he noted with satisfaction that Xaltotun was still in his tent, to judge from the blood-freezing cries that shuddered forth into the night air from time to time. When presently he heard the clink of steel and the jingle of bridles in the outer darkness, he smiled grimly. Valerius had about served his purpose. The baron knew that Conan was like a wounded lion that rends and tears even in his death throes. When Valerius struck from the rear, the desperate blows of the Cimmerian might well wipe his rival out of existence before he himself succumbed. So much the better. Amalric felt he could well dispense with Valerius once he had paved the way for a Nemedian victory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The five thousand horsemen who accompanied Valerius were hard-bitten Aquilonian renegades for the most part. In the still starlight they moved out of the sleeping camp, following the westward trend of the great black masses that rose against the stars ahead of them. Valerius rode at their head, and beside him rode Tiberias, a leather thong about his wrist gripped by a man-at-arms who rode on the other side. Others kept close behind with drawn swords.

“Play us false and you die instantly,” Valerius warned. “I do not know every sheep path in these hills, but I know enough about the general shape of the country to know the directions we must take to come in behind the Valley of Lions. See that you do not lead us astray.”

The man ducked his head, his teeth chattering as he volubly assured his captor of his loyalty, staring up stupidly at the banner that floated over him—the golden serpent of the old dynasty.

Skirting the extremities of the hills that locked the Valley of Lions, they swung wide to the west. After an hour’s ride they turned north, forging through wild and rugged hills, following dim trails and tortuous paths. Sunrise found them some miles northwest of Conan’s position, and here the guide turned eastward and led them through a maze of labyrinths and crags. Valerius nodded, judging their position by various peaks thrusting up above the others. He had kept his bearings in a general way, and he knew they were still headed in the right direction.

But now, without warning, a gray fleecy mass came billowing down from the north, veiling the slopes and spreading through the valleys. It blotted out the sun; the world became a blind gray void in which visibility was limited to a few yards. Advance became a stumbling, groping muddle. Valerius cursed. He could no longer see the peaks that had served him as guideposts. He must depend wholly upon the traitorous guide. The golden serpent drooped in the windless air.