It was a strong position. His flanks could not be turned, for that would mean climbing the steep, wooded hills in the teeth of Bossonian arrows and swords. His camp lay directly behind him in a narrow, steep-walled valley, merely a continuation of the Valley of Lions, rising at a higher level. He did not fear a surprise from the rear, for the hills behind him were filled with refugees and broken men whose loyalty to him was beyond question.

But if his position was hard to shake, it was equally hard to escape from. It was both a trap and a fortress for the defenders—a desperate last stand of men who did not expect to survive unless they were victorious. The only possible line of retreat lay through the narrow valley at their rear.

       *       *       *       *       *

Xaltotun mounted a hill on the left side of the valley, near its wide mouth. This hill rose higher than the others and was known as the King’s Altar, for a reason long forgotten. Only Xaltotun remembered, and his memory reached back three thousand years.

He was not alone. His two familiars—silent, hairy, furtive, and dark—were with him, bearing a young Aquilonian girl bound hand and foot. They laid her on an ancient stone, curiously like an altar, which crowned the summit of the hill. For long centuries it had stood there, worn by the elements until many doubted it was anything more than a strangely shaped natural rock. But Xaltotun knew what it was, and why it stood there. The familiars went away, their bent backs like silent gnomes, and Xaltotun stood alone beside the altar, his dark beard blown by the wind as he looked down over the valley.

He could see clear back to the winding Shirki and up into the hills beyond the valley’s head. He saw the gleaming wedge of steel drawn up on the terraces, the burganets of the archers glinting among rocks and bushes, the silent knights motionless on their steeds, pennons flowing above their helmets, lances rising in a bristling thicket.

Looking the other way, he saw the long serried lines of the Nemedians moving in ranks of shining steel into the valley’s mouth. Behind them, the gay pavilions of the lords and knights and the drab tents of the common soldiers stretched almost to the river.

Like a river of molten steel, the Nemedian host flowed into the valley, the great scarlet dragon rippling above it. First marched the bowmen in even ranks, arbalests half raised, bolts nocked, fingers on triggers. After them came the pikemen, and behind them the true strength of the army—the mounted knights, banners unfurled to the wind, lances lifted, walking their great steeds forward as if riding to a banquet.

Higher up on the slopes, the smaller Aquilonian host stood grimly silent.

There were thirty thousand Nemedian knights, and, as in most Hyborian nations, the chivalry was the sword of the army. The footmen served only to clear the way for the charge of the armored knights. There were twenty-one thousand of these—pikemen and archers.

The bowmen began loosing as they advanced, without breaking ranks, launching their quarrels with a whir and tang. But the bolts fell short or rattled harmlessly from the overlapping shields of the Gundermen. Before the arbalesters could come within killing range, the arching shafts of the Bossonians were wreaking havoc in their ranks.

After a brief, futile exchange of fire, the Nemedian bowmen began falling back in disorder. Their armor was light, their weapons no match for the Bossonian longbows. The western archers were sheltered by rocks and bushes. Moreover, the Nemedian footmen lacked the morale of the horsemen, knowing they were used merely to clear the way for the knights.

The crossbowmen fell back, and through their opening lines the pikemen advanced. These were largely mercenaries, and their masters had no qualms about sacrificing them. They were meant to mask the knights’ advance until the latter were within striking distance. So while the arbalesters plied their bolts from either flank at long range, the pikemen marched into the teeth of the storm from above, and behind them the knights came on.

When the pikemen began to falter beneath the savage hail of death whistling down the slopes, a trumpet blew, their companies divided to right and left, and through them the mailed knights thundered.

They ran full into a cloud of stinging death. The clothyard shafts found every crevice in their armor and the housings of their steeds. Horses scrambling up the grassy terraces reared and plunged backward, bearing their riders with them. Steel-clad forms littered the slopes. The charge wavered and ebbed back.

Down in the valley, Amalric reformed his ranks. Tarascus fought with drawn sword beneath the scarlet dragon, but it was the Baron of Tor who commanded that day. Amalric swore as he glanced at the forest of lance-tips visible above and beyond the Gundermen’s headpieces. He had hoped his retreat would draw the knights into a charge down the slopes after him, to be raked from either flank by his bowmen and swamped by his horsemen’s numbers. But they had not moved. Camp-servants brought skins of water from the river. Knights doffed their helmets and drenched their sweating heads. The wounded on the slopes screamed vainly for water. In the upper valley, springs supplied the defenders. They did not thirst that long, hot spring day.

On the King’s Altar, beside the ancient carven stone, Xaltotun watched the steel tide ebb and flow. On came the knights, with waving plumes and dipping lances. Through a whistling cloud of arrows they plowed, to break like a thundering wave on the bristling wall of spears and shields. Axes rose and fell above the plumed helmets, spears thrust upward, bringing down horses and riders. The pride of the Gundermen was no less fierce than that of the knights. They were not spear-fodder to be sacrificed for the glory of better men. They were the finest infantry in the world, with a tradition that made their morale unshakable. The kings of Aquilonia had long learned the worth of unbreakable infantry. They held their formation firm; over their gleaming ranks flowed the great lion banner, and at the tip of the wedge a giant figure in black armor roared and smote like a hurricane, with a dripping axe that split steel and bone alike.