Xaltotun cried out as if he had been stabbed.  

“The Heart! The Heart of Ahriman!”  

“Aye! The one power greater than yours!”  

Xaltotun seemed to shrivel, to grow old before their eyes. Suddenly his beard was streaked with white, his locks flecked with gray.  

“The Heart!” he mumbled. “You stole it! Dog! Thief!”  

“Not I! It has been on a long journey far to the south. But now it is in my hands, and your black arts cannot stand against it. As it resurrected you, so shall it hurl you back into the night whence it drew you. You shall go down the dark road to Acheron, the road of silence and shadow. The dark empire, unreborn, shall remain a legend and a black memory. Conan shall reign again. And the Heart of Ahriman shall return to the cavern beneath the temple of Mitra, to burn as a symbol of Aquilonia’s power for a thousand years!”  

Xaltotun screamed inhumanly and rushed around the altar, dagger lifted. But from somewhere—out of the sky, perhaps, or from the great jewel blazing in Hadrathus’s hand—shot a jetting beam of blinding blue light. It struck full against Xaltotun’s breast, and the hills re-echoed with the concussion. The wizard of Acheron went down as though struck by a thunderbolt, and before he touched the ground he was fearfully transformed. Beside the altar-stone lay no fresh-slain corpse, but a shriveled mummy—a brown, dry, unrecognizable carcass sprawling among moldering wrappings.  

Somberly, old Zelata looked down.  

“He was not a living man,” she said. “The Heart lent him a false semblance of life that deceived even himself. I never saw him as anything but a mummy.”  

Hadrathus bent to unbind the swooning girl on the altar when, from among the trees, appeared a strange apparition—Xaltotun’s chariot drawn by the weird horses. Silently they advanced to the altar and halted, the chariot wheel almost touching the brown, withered thing on the grass. Hadrathus lifted the body of the wizard and placed it in the chariot. Without hesitation the uncanny steeds turned and moved off southward, down the hill. Hadrathus, Zelata, and the gray wolf watched them go—down the long road to Acheron, which lies beyond the ken of men.  

       *       *       *       *       *  

Down in the valley, Amalric stiffened in his saddle when he saw that wild horseman curvetting and caracoling on the slopes, brandishing the blood-stained serpent-banner. Then some instinct jerked his head toward the hill known as the King’s Altar. His lips parted. Every man in the valley saw it—an arching shaft of dazzling light that towered up from the summit, showering golden fire. High above the hosts it burst in a blinding blaze that momentarily dimmed the sun.  

“That’s not Xaltotun’s signal!” roared the baron.  

“No!” shouted Tarascus. “It’s a signal to the Aquilonians! Look!”  

Above them the immobile ranks were moving at last, and a deep-throated roar thundered across the vale.  

“Xaltotun has failed us!” bellowed Amalric furiously. “Valerius has failed us! We’ve been led into a trap! Mitra’s curse on Xaltotun who brought us here! Sound the retreat!”  

“Too late!” yelled Tarascus. “Look!”  

Up on the slopes the forest of lances dipped and leveled. The ranks of the Gundermen rolled back to right and left like a parting curtain. And with a thunder like the rising roar of a hurricane, the knights of Aquilonia crashed down the slopes.  

The impetus of that charge was irresistible. Bolts from the demoralized arbalesters glanced from their shields and helms. Plumes and pennons streaming behind them, lances lowered, they swept over the wavering lines of pikemen and roared down the slopes like a breaking wave.  

Amalric shouted an order to charge, and the Nemedians, with desperate courage, spurred their horses uphill. They still outnumbered the attackers.  

But they were weary men on tired horses, charging upward. The onrushing knights had not struck a blow that day; their mounts were fresh. They came downhill like a thunderbolt—and like a thunderbolt they smote the struggling ranks of the Nemedians, split them apart, ripped them asunder, and dashed the remnants headlong down the slopes.  

After them on foot came the blood-mad Gundermen, and the Bossonians swarmed down the hills, loosing arrows as they ran at every foe still moving.  

Down the slopes washed the tide of battle, the dazed Nemedians swept along on its crest. Their archers had thrown down their arbalests and were fleeing. The surviving pikemen, shattered by the knights’ charge, were cut to pieces by the ruthless Gundermen.  

In wild confusion the battle surged through the wide mouth of the valley and out onto the plain beyond. All over the plain swarmed warriors—fleeing and pursuing, locked in single combat or clashing in clumps of smiting, hacking knights on rearing, wheeling horses. But the Nemedians were broken, unable to rally or make a stand. By the hundreds they broke away, spurring for the river. Many reached it, crossed, and rode eastward. The countryside rose behind them; the people hunted them like wolves. Few ever reached Tarantia.  

The final collapse came with the fall of Amalric. The baron, striving in vain to rally his men, rode straight at the cluster of knights following the giant in black armor whose surcoat bore the royal lion, and above whose head floated the golden lion banner beside the scarlet leopard of Poitain. A tall warrior in gleaming armor couched his lance and charged to meet the lord of Tor. They met with a thunderclap. The Nemedian’s lance, striking his foe’s helmet, snapped bolts and rivets and tore off the casque, revealing the features of Pallantides. But the Aquilonian’s lance-head crashed through shield and breastplate to transfix the baron’s heart.  

A roar went up as Amalric was hurled from his saddle, snapping the lance that impaled him, and the Nemedians gave way as a barrier bursts under the surging impact of a tidal wave. They rode for the river in a blind stampede that swept the plain like a whirlwind. The Hour of the Dragon had passed.  