Tarascus did not flee. Amalric was dead, the color-bearer slain, and the royal Nemedian banner trampled in blood and dust. Most of his knights were fleeing, and the Aquilonians were cutting them down. Tarascus knew the day was lost, yet with a handful of loyal followers he raged through the mêlée, driven by one desire—to meet Conan, the Cimmerian. And at last, he met him.

Formations had been utterly destroyed, close-knit bands shattered and scattered. The crest of Trocero gleamed in one part of the plain, those of Prospero and Pallantides in others. Conan was alone. The house-troops of Tarascus had fallen one by one. The two kings met man to man.

Even as they charged each other, the horse of Tarascus sobbed and sank beneath him. Conan leaped from his own steed and ran forward as the king of Nemedia disentangled himself and rose. Steel flashed blindingly in the sun, clashed loudly, and blue sparks flew; then came a clang of armor as Tarascus fell his full length to the earth beneath a thunderous stroke of Conan’s broadsword.

The Cimmerian set a mail-shod foot on his enemy’s breast and lifted his sword. His helmet was gone; he shook back his black mane, and his blue eyes blazed with their old fire.

“Do you yield?”

“Will you give me quarter?” demanded the Nemedian.

“Aye. Better than you’d have given me, you dog. Life for you and all your men who throw down their arms—though I ought to split your head for an infernal thief,” the Cimmerian added.

Tarascus twisted his neck and glared over the plain. The remnants of the Nemedian host were fleeing across the stone bridge, with swarms of victorious Aquilonians at their heels, striking with the fury of glutted vengeance. Bossonians and Gundermen swarmed through the enemy camp, tearing down tents in search of plunder, seizing prisoners, ripping open baggage, and overturning wagons.

Tarascus cursed fervently, then shrugged as best he could under the circumstances.

“Very well. I have no choice. What are your demands?”

“Surrender to me all your present holdings in Aquilonia. Order your garrisons to march out of the castles and towns they hold, unarmed, and get your infernal armies out of Aquilonia as quickly as possible. In addition, you shall return all Aquilonians sold as slaves and pay an indemnity to be determined later, when the damage your occupation has caused is properly assessed. You will remain as hostage until these terms are fulfilled.”

“Very well,” yielded Tarascus. “I will surrender all the castles and towns now held by my garrisons without resistance, and all else shall be done. What ransom for my body?”

Conan laughed and removed his foot from his foe’s steel-clad breast, grasped his shoulder, and heaved him to his feet. He started to speak, then turned to see Hadrathus approaching. The priest was calm and self-possessed as ever, picking his way between rows of dead men and horses.

Conan wiped the sweat-smeared dust from his face with a blood-stained hand. He had fought all through the day—first on foot with the pikemen, then in the saddle, leading the charge. His surcoat was gone, his armor splashed with blood and battered by sword, mace, and ax. He loomed gigantically against a background of blood and slaughter, like some grim pagan hero of mythology.

“Well done, Hadrathus!” he said gustily. “By Crom, I’m glad to see your signal! My knights were near mad with impatience, eating their hearts out to be at sword-strokes. I could not have held them much longer. What of the wizard?”

“He has gone down the dim road to Acheron,” answered Hadrathus. “And I—I am for Tarantia. My work is done here, and I have a task awaiting me at the temple of Mitra. All our work is done. On this field we have saved Aquilonia—and more than Aquilonia. Your ride to your capital will be a triumphal procession through a kingdom mad with joy. All Aquilonia will cheer the return of their king. And so, until we meet again in the great royal hall—farewell!”

Conan stood silently watching the priest depart. From various parts of the field knights were hurrying toward him. He saw Pallantides, Trocero, Prospero, Servius Galannus—their armor splashed with crimson. The thunder of battle was giving way to a roar of triumph and acclaim. All eyes, hot with strife and shining with exultation, turned toward the great black figure of the king; mailed arms brandished red-stained swords. A deep, thunderous torrent of sound rose like sea-surf: “Hail, Conan, king of Aquilonia!”

Tarascus spoke.

“You have not yet named my ransom.”

Conan laughed and sheathed his sword. He flexed his mighty arms and ran his blood-stained fingers through his thick black locks, as if feeling there his rewon crown.

“There is a girl in your seraglio named Zenobia.”

“Why, yes, so there is.”

“Very well.” The king smiled as at a most pleasant memory. “She shall be your ransom, and nothing else. I will come to Belverus for her, as I promised. She was a slave in Nemedia—but I will make her queen of Aquilonia!”