=== CONTEXT REVIEW: whence ===
1500:'It is called the Heart of Ahriman. When Acheron was overthrown, the primitive priest who had stolen it and turned it against Xaltotun hid it in a haunted cavern and built a small temple over the cavern. Thrice thereafter the temple was rebuilt, each time greater and more elaborate than before, but always on the site of the original shrine, though men forgot the reason. Memory of the hidden symbol faded from the minds of common men and was preserved only in priestly books and esoteric volumes. Whence it came no one knows. Some say it is the veritable heart of a god; others that it is a star that fell from the skies long ago. Until it was stolen, none had looked upon it for three thousand years.
2175:It was long and narrow, a typical trading ship of the southern coasts, high of poop and stern, with cabins at either end. Conan looked down into the open waist, whence wafted that sickening, abominable odor he knew too well—the body-scent of the oarsmen chained to their benches. They were all negroes, forty men to each side, each confined by a chain locked about his waist, the other end welded to a heavy ring set deep in the solid runway beam that ran between the benches from stem to stern. The life of a slave aboard an Argossean galley was a hell unfathomable. Most of these were Kushites, but some thirty of the blacks who now rested on their idle oars and stared up at the stranger with dull curiosity were from the far southern isles, the homelands of the corsairs. Conan recognized them by their straighter features and hair, their rangier, cleaner-limbed build. Among them he saw men who had once followed him.
3042:“Not I! It has been on a long journey far to the south. But now it is in my hands, and your black arts cannot stand against it. As it resurrected you, so shall it hurl you back into the night whence it drew you. You shall go down the dark road to Acheron, the road of silence and shadow. The dark empire, unreborn, shall remain a legend and a black memory. Conan shall reign again. And the Heart of Ahriman shall return to the cavern beneath the temple of Mitra, to burn as a symbol of Aquilonia’s power for a thousand years!”  

=== CONTEXT REVIEW: aught ===
179:“Your Majesty!” exclaimed Pallantides. “Is aught amiss?”  

=== CONTEXT REVIEW: naught ===
