555:“Aquilonia is doomed,” answered Xaltotun, unmoved. “Lance and ax and torch shall conquer her; or if they fail, powers from the dark of ages shall march against her. As the cliffs fell at Valkia, so shall walled cities and mountains fall if the need arise, and rivers roar from their channels to drown whole provinces.
1816:“None but me shall open it!” he shouted.
2474:“Fool!” she shrieked. “Do you think to escape me? You will live and die in darkness! I have brought you far below the temple. You can never find your way out alone. You can never cut your way through those that guard the tunnels. But for my protection, the sons of Set would long ago have taken you into their bellies. Fool, I shall yet drink your blood!”  
2513:“And here I stand, master of the Heart, and have summoned you secretly, who are faithful to me, to share in the black kingdom that shall be. Tonight you shall witness the breaking of Thoth-Amon’s chains that enslave us, and the birth of empire.”
2515:“Who am I, even I, Thutothmes, to know what powers lurk and dream in those crimson deeps? It holds secrets forgotten for three thousand years. But I shall learn. These shall tell me!”
2521:“I will rouse them, awaken them, learn their forgotten wisdom—the knowledge locked in those withered skulls. By the lore of the dead we shall enslave the living! Yes, kings and generals and wizards of old shall be our helpers and our slaves. Who shall stand before us?
2597:20 – OUT OF THE DUST SHALL ACHERON ARISE  
2598:Out of the Dust Shall Acheron Arise  
2650:"Mad?" Orastes turned a haggard stare upon him. "Can any man see what I have seen and remain wholly sane? Yet I speak the truth. He plots the return of Acheron, with its towers, wizards, kings, and horrors, as it was in the long ago. The descendants of Acheron will serve him as a nucleus upon which to build, but it is the blood and bodies of the people of the world today that will furnish the mortar and stones for the rebuilding. I cannot tell you how. My own brain reels when I try to understand. But I have seen! Acheron will be Acheron again, and even the hills, forests, and rivers will resume their ancient aspect. Why not? If I, with my meager store of knowledge, could bring to life a man dead three thousand years, why cannot the greatest wizard in the world bring back to life a kingdom dead three thousand years? Out of the dust shall Acheron arise at his bidding."
2660:"It is a power that can be used against him. With it in my hands, I might defy him. But how shall we steal it? He has it hidden in some secret place, from which not even a Zamorian thief could filch it. I cannot learn its hiding place. If only he would sleep again the sleep of the black lotus—but the last time he slept thus was after the battle of Valkia, when he was weary from the great magic he had performed, and—"
2714:“Then we shall crush Poitain and Gunderland and the stupid Bossonians. After them, Ophir, Argos, Zingara, Koth—all the nations of the world we shall weld into one vast empire. You shall rule as my satraps, and as my captains you shall be greater than kings are now. I am unconquerable, for the Heart of Ahriman is hidden where no man can ever wield it against me again.”
2755:“Do not worry,” he said at last. “My arts shall crush Conan finally, like a lizard under the heel. But even sorcery is aided by pikes and swords.”  
2821:‘Fool!’ A gust of passion broke the veneer of the wizard’s calm. ‘Have you forgotten Valkia? Because some obscure elemental principle prevented the flood, do you deem me helpless? I had intended that your spears should exterminate our enemies; but do not fear—it is my arts that shall crush their host. Conan is in a trap. He will never see another sunset. Cross the river!’
2923:“A trick that shall rid the world of a beast! Look, dog!”  
3024:“Because blood aids great sorcery!” thundered Xaltotun, in a voice that made the rocks quiver. A lurid nimbus played about his awful head. “Because no wizard wastes his strength thoughtlessly. Because I would conserve my powers for the great days to come, rather than expend them in a hill-country brawl. But now, by Set, I shall loose them to the uttermost! Watch, dog of Asura, false priest of an outworn god, and see a sight that shall blast your reason forever!”
3042:“Not I! It has been on a long journey far to the south. But now it is in my hands, and your black arts cannot stand against it. As it resurrected you, so shall it hurl you back into the night whence it drew you. You shall go down the dark road to Acheron, the road of silence and shadow. The dark empire, unreborn, shall remain a legend and a black memory. Conan shall reign again. And the Heart of Ahriman shall return to the cavern beneath the temple of Mitra, to burn as a symbol of Aquilonia’s power for a thousand years!”  
3104:“Surrender to me all your present holdings in Aquilonia. Order your garrisons to march out of the castles and towns they hold, unarmed, and get your infernal armies out of Aquilonia as quickly as possible. In addition, you shall return all Aquilonians sold as slaves and pay an indemnity to be determined later, when the damage your occupation has caused is properly assessed. You will remain as hostage until these terms are fulfilled.”
3106:“Very well,” yielded Tarascus. “I will surrender all the castles and towns now held by my garrisons without resistance, and all else shall be done. What ransom for my body?”
3128:“Very well.” The king smiled as at a most pleasant memory. “She shall be your ransom, and nothing else. I will come to Belverus for her, as I promised. She was a slave in Nemedia—but I will make her queen of Aquilonia!”
