“Listen!” hissed the king. “Did you hear that? A sneaky step!”  

“Seven knights guard your tent, Your Majesty,” said Pallantides. “No one could come near without being challenged.”  

“Not outside,” growled Conan. “It sounded like it came from inside the tent.”  

Pallantides quickly looked around, startled. The velvet curtains blended with the shadows in the corners, but if anyone else had been in the pavilion, the general would have seen them. He shook his head again.  

“There’s no one here, sire. You’re sleeping in the middle of your army.”  

“I’ve seen death strike a king in the middle of thousands,” muttered Conan. “Something that walks on invisible feet and can’t be seen—”  

“Maybe you were dreaming, Your Majesty,” said Pallantides, a bit uneasy.  

“So I was,” grunted Conan. “And it was a devilish dream, too. I walked again all the long, weary roads I traveled on my way to becoming king.”  

He fell silent, and Pallantides stared at him without speaking. The king was a mystery to the general, as he was to most of his civilized subjects. Pallantides knew that Conan had walked many strange paths in his wild, eventful life, and had been many things before fate placed him on the throne of Aquilonia.  

“I saw again the battlefield where I was born,” said Conan, resting his chin moodily on a massive fist. “I saw myself in a panther-skin loincloth, throwing my spear at mountain beasts. I was a mercenary swordsman again, a hetman of the kozaki who live along the Zaporoska River, a corsair raiding the coasts of Kush, a pirate of the Barachan Isles, a chief of the Himelian hillmen. I’ve been all these things, and I dreamed of them all; all the shapes I’ve worn passed before me like an endless procession, and their feet beat out a funeral rhythm in the echoing dust.  

“But through all my dreams moved strange, veiled figures and ghostly shadows, and a distant voice mocked me. And near the end I seemed to see myself lying on this dais in my tent, and a shape bent over me, cloaked and hooded. I lay unable to move, and then the hood fell back and a rotting skull grinned down at me. That’s when I woke up.”  

“That’s an evil dream, Your Majesty,” said Pallantides, suppressing a shudder. “But nothing more.”  

Conan shook his head, more doubtful than dismissive. He came from a barbarian race, and the superstitions and instincts of his heritage lay close beneath the surface of his mind.  

“I’ve dreamed many evil dreams,” he said, “and most of them meant nothing. But by Crom, this one wasn’t like the others! I wish this battle were already fought and won, because I’ve had a grim feeling ever since King Nimed died of the black plague. Why did it stop when he died?”  

“Men say he sinned—”  

“Men are fools, as always,” grunted Conan. “If the plague struck everyone who sinned, then by Crom there wouldn’t be enough left alive to count! Why would the gods—who the priests claim are just—kill five hundred peasants, merchants, and nobles before killing the king, if the whole plague was meant for him? Were the gods striking blindly, like swordsmen in a fog? By Mitra, if I aimed my blows that poorly, Aquilonia would have had a new king long ago.  

“No! The black plague isn’t a normal disease. It hides in Stygian tombs and is only brought forth by sorcerers. I was a swordsman in Prince Almuric’s army when we invaded Stygia, and of his thirty thousand men, fifteen thousand died by Stygian arrows, and the rest by the black plague that swept over us like a wind from the south. I was the only one who lived.”  

“Yet only five hundred died in Nemedia,” argued Pallantides.  

“Whoever summoned it knew how to stop it at will,” answered Conan. “So I know it was planned and evil. Someone called it forth, someone dismissed it when the job was done—when Tarascus was safe on the throne and being hailed as the savior of the people from the wrath of the gods. By Crom, I sense a dark, cunning mind behind all this. What about this stranger people say advises Tarascus?”  

“He wears a veil,” answered Pallantides. “They say he’s a foreigner—a stranger from Stygia.”  

“A stranger from Stygia!” repeated Conan, scowling. “A stranger from hell, more like!—Ha! What’s that?”  

“The trumpets of the Nemedians!” exclaimed Pallantides. “And listen, our own sound right after them! Dawn is breaking, and the captains are forming the armies for battle! Mitra be with them, for many won’t see the sun set behind the cliffs.”  

“Send my squires to me!” exclaimed Conan, rising quickly and throwing off his velvet night-robe; he seemed to have forgotten his dark thoughts at the prospect of action. “Go to the captains and make sure everything is ready. I’ll join you as soon as I put on my armor.”  

Many of Conan’s habits were baffling to the civilized people he ruled, and one of them was his insistence on sleeping alone in his chamber or tent. Pallantides hurried from the pavilion, his armor clanking—the same armor he had put on at midnight after a few hours of sleep. He glanced swiftly over the camp, which was now coming alive with movement, mail clinking and men moving dimly in the uncertain light among the long rows of tents. Stars still glimmered faintly in the western sky, but long pink streaks stretched along the eastern horizon, and against them the dragon banner of Nemedia unfurled its rippling silk folds.  

Pallantides turned toward a smaller tent nearby, where the royal squires slept. They were already tumbling out, roused by the trumpets. And as Pallantides called to them to hurry, he froze in shock at a deep, fierce shout and the sound of a heavy blow inside the king’s tent, followed by the sickening crash of a falling body. Then came a low laugh that turned the general’s blood to ice.  

Echoing the cry, Pallantides spun around and rushed back into the pavilion. He cried out again when he saw Conan’s massive body stretched out on the carpet. The king’s great two-handed sword lay near his hand, and a shattered tent pole showed where his blow had struck. Pallantides drew his sword and glared around the tent, but nothing met his gaze. Except for the king and himself, it was empty—just as it had been when he left.  