“Your Majesty!” Pallantides dropped to one knee beside the fallen giant.

Conan’s eyes were open; they blazed with full awareness and recognition. His lips twisted, but no sound came out. He seemed unable to move.

Voices sounded outside. Pallantides rose quickly and stepped to the door. The royal squires and one of the knights guarding the tent stood there.

“We heard a noise inside,” said the knight apologetically. “Is everything all right with the king?”

Pallantides studied him intently.

“No one has entered or left the pavilion tonight?”

“No one except you, my lord,” answered the knight, and Pallantides had no reason to doubt his honesty.

“The king stumbled and dropped his sword,” said Pallantides shortly. “Return to your post.”

As the knight turned away, the general discreetly motioned to the five royal squires, and when they had followed him inside, he closed the flap tightly. They turned pale at the sight of the king lying on the carpet, but Pallantides’ quick gesture stopped their cries.

The general bent over him again, and again Conan tried to speak. The veins in his temples and the cords in his neck bulged with the effort, and he lifted his head off the ground. At last a voice came, mumbling and barely understandable.

“The thing—the thing in the corner!”

Pallantides lifted his head and looked around fearfully. He saw only the pale faces of the squires in the lamplight and the velvet shadows lurking along the pavilion walls. That was all.

“There’s nothing here, Your Majesty,” he said.

“It was there, in the corner,” muttered the king, tossing his lion-maned head from side to side as he struggled to rise. “A man—or at least he looked like a man—wrapped in rags like a mummy’s bandages, with a rotting cloak around him and a hood. All I could see were his eyes as he crouched there in the shadows. I thought he was a shadow himself until I saw those eyes. They were like black jewels.

“I lunged at him and swung my sword, but I missed completely—how, only Crom knows—and shattered that pole instead. He grabbed my wrist as I stumbled off balance, and his fingers burned like hot iron. All my strength left me, and the floor rose up and hit me like a club. Then he was gone, and I was down, and—curse him!—I can’t move! I’m paralyzed!”

Pallantides lifted the giant’s hand, and his skin crawled. On the king’s wrist were the blue marks of long, thin fingers. What kind of hand could grip so hard as to leave its print on that thick wrist? Pallantides remembered the low laugh he had heard as he rushed into the tent, and cold sweat broke out on his skin. It had not been Conan who laughed.

“This is something evil!” whispered a trembling squire. “Men say the children of darkness fight for Tarascus!”

“Be silent!” ordered Pallantides sternly.

Outside, dawn was dimming the stars. A light wind rose from the peaks and carried the fanfare of a thousand trumpets. At the sound, a convulsive shudder ran through the king’s massive body. Again the veins in his temples bulged as he struggled to break the invisible chains that held him down.

“Put my armor on me and tie me into my saddle,” he whispered. “I’ll lead the charge yet!”

Pallantides shook his head, and a squire tugged at his skirt.

“My lord, we’re lost if the army learns the king has been struck down! Only he could have led us to victory today.”

“Help me lift him onto the dais,” said the general.

They obeyed, laying the helpless giant on the furs and spreading a silken cloak over him. Pallantides turned to the five squires and studied their pale faces for a long moment before speaking.

“Our lips must remain sealed forever about what happens in this tent,” he said at last. “The kingdom of Aquilonia depends on it. One of you go and bring me the officer Valannus, captain of the Pellian spearmen.”

The chosen squire bowed and hurried from the tent, while Pallantides stood staring down at the stricken king. Outside, trumpets blared, drums thundered, and the roar of the masses rose with the growing dawn. Soon the squire returned with the officer Pallantides had named—a tall, broad, powerful man, built much like the king. Like Conan, he had thick black hair, but his eyes were gray and his features were different.

“The king has been struck by a strange illness,” said Pallantides briefly. “A great honor is yours; you are to wear his armor and ride at the head of the army today. No one must know it isn’t the king who rides.”

“It’s an honor for which a man would gladly give his life,” stammered the captain, overwhelmed by the command. “Mitra grant that I don’t fail in this great trust!”

And while the fallen king stared with burning eyes that reflected the bitter rage and humiliation eating at his heart, the squires stripped Valannus of his mail shirt, helmet, and leg armor, and dressed him in Conan’s black plate armor, with the visored salade and the dark plumes nodding above the wyvern crest. Over all they placed the silken surcoat with the royal lion embroidered in gold on the chest, and they belted him with a broad gold-buckled belt that held a jewel-hilted broadsword in a cloth-of-gold scabbard. While they worked, trumpets blared outside, weapons clanged, and across the river rose a deep roar as squadron after squadron moved into position.

Fully armed, Valannus dropped to one knee and bowed his plumes before the figure lying on the dais.

“Lord King, may Mitra grant that I do not dishonor the armor I wear today!”

“Bring me Tarascus’ head and I’ll make you a baron!” In the heat of his anguish, Conan’s thin layer of civilization had fallen away. His eyes blazed, his teeth ground in fury and bloodlust, as savage as any tribesman from the Cimmerian hills.

The Aquilonian army was drawn up—long, serried lines of pikemen and horsemen in gleaming steel—when a giant figure in black armor emerged from the royal pavilion. As he swung into the saddle of the black stallion held by four squires, a roar that shook the mountains rose from the host. They raised their blades and thundered their cheers for their warrior king—knights in gold-chased armor, pikemen in mail coats and helmets, archers in leather jerkins with longbows in their left hands.