Zenobia had made a good choice in picking the white horse. Its speed, toughness, and endurance were obvious. The girl knew both weapons and horses—and, Conan thought with some satisfaction, she also knew men. He rode westward at a pace that devoured the miles.  

He traveled through a sleeping land, passing villages sheltered by groves and white-walled villas surrounded by wide fields and orchards that grew fewer as he went farther west. As the villages became scarce, the land turned rougher, and the fortresses that loomed from the hills spoke of centuries of border wars. But no one rode down from those castles to challenge or stop him. The lords of those keeps were following Amalric’s banner; the flags that once flew over their towers now waved over the Aquilonian plains.  

When the last clustered village was behind him, Conan left the road, which was beginning to curve northwest toward the distant mountain passes. Staying on the road would mean passing border towers still manned by armed guards who wouldn’t let him through without question. He knew there would be no patrols riding the borderlands on either side, as there would be in normal times, but those towers remained, and by dawn there would likely be groups of returning soldiers with wounded men in ox-carts.  

This road from Belverus was the only one crossing the border for fifty miles north to south. It wound through a series of passes in the hills, and on either side stretched a wide expanse of wild, sparsely inhabited mountains. He kept heading due west, planning to cross the border deep in the wilderness of the hills lying south of the passes. It was a shorter but harder route—safer for a hunted man. One rider on horseback could travel through terrain that an army would find impossible.  

But by dawn he still hadn’t reached the hills; they stretched ahead of him like a long, low blue wall along the horizon. There were no farms or villages here, no white-walled villas among clusters of trees. The dawn wind stirred the tall, stiff grass, and there was nothing but the long rolling swells of brown earth covered with dry grass, and in the distance, the stark walls of a fortress on a low hill. Too many Aquilonian raiders had crossed the mountains in recent years for this countryside to be as thickly settled as the lands farther east.  

Dawn spread like wildfire across the grasslands, and high overhead came a strange crying as a scattered wedge of wild geese flew swiftly south. In a grassy hollow Conan stopped and unsaddled his horse. Its sides were heaving, its coat slick with sweat. He had driven it mercilessly through the hours before dawn.  

While it grazed on the brittle grass and rolled on the ground, he lay on the crest of a low slope, staring eastward. Far to the north he could see the road he had left, stretching like a white ribbon over a distant rise. No black dots moved along that shining line. There was no sign from the far-off castle that anyone had noticed the lone traveler.  

An hour later the land still lay bare. The only signs of life were a glint of steel on the distant battlements and a raven circling in the sky, dipping and rising as if searching for something. Conan saddled up again and rode westward at a slower pace.  

As he topped the next rise, a harsh screaming burst above him, and looking up, he saw the raven flapping high overhead, cawing without pause. As he rode on, it followed him, keeping its distance but filling the morning with its grating cries, ignoring all his efforts to drive it away.  

This went on for hours, until Conan’s nerves were raw, and he felt he’d give half his kingdom just to wring that black neck.  

“Devils of hell!” he roared in helpless fury, shaking his mailed fist at the frenzied bird. “Why do you torment me with your squawking? Get away, you black spawn of damnation, and go peck for grain in the farmer’s fields!”  

He was climbing the first slope of the hills when he thought he heard an echo of the bird’s cries far behind him. Turning in his saddle, he soon spotted another black speck hanging in the blue sky. Beyond that, he caught the glint of the afternoon sun on steel. That could mean only one thing—armed men. And they weren’t riding along the main road, which lay out of sight beyond the horizon. They were following him.  

His face hardened, and he shivered slightly as he stared up at the raven circling above.  

“So it’s more than just the whim of a mindless beast?” he muttered. “Those riders can’t see you, creature of hell—but the other bird can see you, and they can see him. You follow me, he follows you, and they follow him. Are you just a cleverly trained bird, or some demon in feathered form? Did Xaltotun send you after me? Are you Xaltotun yourself?”  

Only a shrill screech answered him, vibrating with mocking laughter.  

Conan wasted no more words on his dark betrayer. Grimly, he settled into the long climb through the hills. He dared not push the horse too hard; the brief rest he’d given it hadn’t been enough to restore its strength. He was still far ahead of his pursuers, but they would steadily close the gap. Their horses were almost certainly fresher than his—they had probably changed mounts at that castle he had passed.  

The terrain grew rougher, the landscape more rugged, with steep grassy slopes rising into thickly forested mountainsides. Here, he knew, he might lose his hunters—if not for that cursed bird shrieking endlessly above him. He could no longer see his pursuers in this broken country, but he was sure they still followed, guided without fail by their feathered ally. That black shape became like a demonic shadow, hounding him through endless torment. The stones he hurled with curses missed or fell harmlessly, though in his youth he had brought down hawks in flight.  

The horse was tiring fast. Conan recognized the grim finality of his situation. He felt an unstoppable fate driving him onward. Escape was impossible. He was as much a prisoner now as he had been in the dungeons of Belverus. But he was no man of the East to surrender passively to what seemed inevitable. If he couldn’t escape, he would at least take some of his enemies with him into death. He turned into a wide thicket of larches covering a slope, searching for a place to make his stand.  