“Conan has come back!”

“Conan?” The thin man jerked upright, and the quill slipped from his fingers. “The pirate?”

“Yes!”

The gaunt man went pale. “Is he insane? If he’s found here, we’re finished! They’ll hang anyone who shelters or trades with a pirate just as quickly as they’ll hang the pirate himself! What if the governor finds out about our past dealings with him?”

“He won’t find out,” said Publio grimly. “Send your men into the markets and the dockside taverns and find out if a man named Beloso, a Zingaran, is in Messantia. Conan said he had a gem, and he’ll probably try to sell it. The jewel merchants should know of him if anyone does. And there’s something else I want you to do: gather a dozen or so desperate scoundrels who can be trusted to kill a man and keep quiet afterward. You understand me?”

“I understand.” The other nodded slowly and darkly.

“I didn’t steal, cheat, lie, and fight my way up from the gutter just to be ruined now by a ghost from my past,” muttered Publio. The sinister look on his face at that moment would have shocked the wealthy nobles and ladies who bought silks and pearls from his many stalls. But when he returned to Conan a short while later, carrying a platter of fruit and meats in his own hands, he wore a calm and pleasant expression for his unwelcome guest.

Conan still stood at the window, staring down at the harbor, where the sails of galleons, carracks, galleys, and dromonds glowed purple, crimson, vermilion, and scarlet.

“There’s a Stygian galley, if my eyes don’t deceive me,” he said, pointing to a long, low, sleek black ship lying apart from the others, anchored off the wide sandy beach that curved toward the distant headland. “So there’s peace now between Stygia and Argos?”

“The same kind of peace that’s always existed,” replied Publio, setting the heavy platter on the table with a sigh of relief—he knew his guest’s appetite well. “Stygian ports are temporarily open to our ships, as ours are to theirs. But may none of my vessels ever meet their cursed galleys out of sight of land! That galley slipped into the bay last night. I don’t know what its masters want. So far, they’ve neither bought nor sold anything. I don’t trust those dark-skinned devils. Treachery was born in that shadowed land.”

“I’ve made them scream,” said Conan carelessly, turning from the window. “In my galley manned by black corsairs, I crept by night to the very walls of the sea-washed fortresses of black-walled Khemi and burned the galleons anchored there. And speaking of treachery, my host, why don’t you taste some of this food and sip a little of this wine—just to show me your heart’s in the right place.”

Publio did so quickly enough that Conan’s suspicions faded, and without further hesitation he sat down and ate enough for three men.

While he ate, men moved through the markets and along the waterfront, searching for a Zingaran who had a jewel to sell or who was looking for a ship to take him to foreign lands. And a tall, thin man with a scar on his temple sat with his elbows on a wine-stained table in a filthy cellar, a brass lantern hanging from a smoke-blackened beam above him, speaking quietly with ten desperate rogues whose sinister faces and ragged clothes made their trade obvious.

And as the first stars appeared, they shone on a strange group riding hard along the white road leading to Messantia from the west. There were four of them—tall, thin men dressed in black hooded robes—and they said nothing. They drove their weary horses mercilessly onward, and the beasts were as gaunt and sweat-streaked as their riders, as if they had traveled far and long.

Conan woke from deep sleep as fast and sharp as a cat. And like a cat, he was on his feet with his sword drawn before the man who had touched him could even step back.

“What news, Publio?” demanded Conan, recognizing his host. The gold lamp burned low, casting a warm glow over the thick tapestries and the rich coverings of the couch where he had been resting.

Publio, recovering from the shock of his guest’s sudden movement, replied, “The Zingaran has been found. He arrived yesterday at dawn. Just a few hours ago he tried to sell a huge, strange jewel to a Shemitish merchant, but the Shemite wanted nothing to do with it. They say he went pale beneath his black beard when he saw it, and shut his stall and fled as if from a cursed thing.”

“It must be Beloso,” muttered Conan, feeling his pulse pounding with impatient excitement. “Where is he now?”

“He’s sleeping in the house of Servio.”

“I know that dive well,” grunted Conan. “I’d better hurry before some dockside thief cuts his throat for the jewel.”

He threw his cloak over his shoulders and put on a helmet that Publio had gotten for him.

“Have my horse saddled and ready in the courtyard,” he said. “I may return quickly. I won’t forget what you’ve done tonight, Publio.”

A few moments later, Publio stood at a small outer door, watching the tall figure of the king fade down the shadowy street.

“Farewell, pirate,” muttered the merchant. “That must be quite a jewel, to be hunted by a man who’s just lost a kingdom. I almost wish I’d told my men to let him get it before they did their work. But then, something might have gone wrong. Let Argos forget Amra, and let my dealings with him be buried in the dust of the past. In the alley behind Servio’s house—that’s where Conan will stop being a threat to me.”

Servio’s house, a grimy, notorious den, stood near the docks, facing the waterfront. It was a ramshackle building of stone and heavy ship timbers, with a long narrow alley running beside it. Conan made his way down the alley, and as he neared the house, he felt a prickle of unease, as though someone were watching him. He peered hard into the shadows of the shabby buildings but saw nothing, though once he caught the faint sound of cloth or leather brushing against skin. But that was nothing unusual. Thieves and beggars prowled these alleys all night, and they weren’t likely to attack him after one look at his size and armor.