Then an axe, swung blindly in the dark, smashed against the king’s helmet, filling his eyes with flashes of fire. He staggered and lunged, felt his sword sink deep, and heard a scream of agony. Then he tripped over a corpse, and a club knocked the dented helmet from his head; the next moment the club struck full on his unprotected skull.

The king of Aquilonia collapsed onto the wet sand. Over him, wolf-like figures panted in the darkness.

“Cut off his head,” one muttered.

“Leave him,” grunted another. “Help me tie up my wounds before I bleed out. The tide will wash him into the bay. Look, he fell right at the water’s edge. His skull’s split; no man could live after blows like that.”

“Help me strip him,” urged another. “His armor will bring a few silver coins. And hurry. Tiberio’s dead, and I hear sailors singing as they stumble along the shore. Let’s get out of here.”

There was hurried movement in the darkness, then the sound of quickly retreating footsteps. The drunken singing of the sailors grew louder.

* * * * *

In his chamber, Publio paced nervously back and forth before a window overlooking the shadowed bay. Suddenly he spun around, his nerves tingling. As far as he knew, the door had been bolted from the inside—but now it stood open, and four men entered the room. The sight of them made his skin crawl. Publio had seen many strange beings in his life, but never any like these. They were tall and gaunt, dressed in black robes, and their faces were dim yellow ovals beneath the shadows of their hoods. He couldn’t make out their features clearly, and he was irrationally glad he couldn’t. Each carried a long, oddly mottled staff.

“Who are you?” he demanded, his voice brittle and hollow. “What do you want here?”

“Where is Conan, the one who was king of Aquilonia?” asked the tallest of the four in a flat, emotionless tone that made Publio shudder. It sounded like the hollow ring of a Khitan temple bell.

“I don’t know what you mean,” stammered the merchant, his usual composure shaken by the eerie presence of his visitors. “I know no such man.”

“He has been here,” said the other, his tone unchanged. “His horse is in the courtyard. Tell us where he is before we harm you.”

“Gebal!” shouted Publio frantically, backing up until he was pressed against the wall. “Gebal!”

The four Khitans watched him without emotion or expression.

“If you call your servant, he will die,” warned one of them, which only terrified Publio even more.

“Gebal!” he screamed. “Where are you, curse you? Thieves are murdering your master!”

Quick footsteps sounded in the corridor outside, and Gebal burst into the room—a Shemite of medium height and powerful build, his curled blue-black beard bristling, a short leaf-shaped sword in his hand.

He stared in dumb amazement at the four intruders, unable to understand how they were there; dimly remembering that he had dozed off inexplicably on the stair he was supposed to guard, the same stair they must have used. He had never fallen asleep on duty before. But his master’s voice was shrill with hysteria, and the Shemite charged like a bull at the strangers, his thick arm drawing back for a gutting thrust. But the blow never landed.

A black-sleeved arm shot out, extending the long staff. Its tip barely touched the Shemite’s broad chest and was instantly withdrawn. The motion was horribly like a snake striking and recoiling.

Gebal stopped short in his rush, as if he had hit a solid wall. His bull-like head drooped forward onto his chest, the sword slipped from his fingers, and then he slowly collapsed to the floor. It was as if all the bones in his body had suddenly turned to jelly. Publio felt sick.

“Don’t shout again,” advised the tallest Khitan. “Your servants sleep deeply, but if you wake them, they will die—and so will you. Where is Conan?”

“He’s gone to the house of Servio, near the waterfront, to look for the Zingaran Beloso,” gasped Publio, all resistance drained from him. The merchant wasn’t a coward, but these unnatural visitors turned his blood to water. He flinched violently at the sudden sound of footsteps hurrying up the stairs outside, loud in the ominous silence.

“Your servant?” asked the Khitan.

Publio shook his head mutely, his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth. He couldn’t speak.

One of the Khitans grabbed a silk cover from a couch and threw it over the corpse. Then they slipped behind the tapestry, but before the tallest man disappeared, he murmured, “Speak to the man who comes and send him away quickly. If you betray us, neither he nor you will live to reach that door. Make no sign that you’re not alone.” And lifting his staff in warning, the yellow-skinned man vanished behind the hangings.

Publio shuddered and fought down a wave of nausea. It might have been a trick of the light, but it seemed to him that those staffs sometimes moved slightly on their own, as if they had a horrible life of their own.

He pulled himself together with a tremendous effort and managed to look composed as a ragged ruffian burst into the room.

“We’ve done as you ordered, my lord,” the man exclaimed. “The barbarian lies dead on the sand at the water’s edge.”

Publio felt movement behind the tapestry and nearly fainted from fear. The man went on heedlessly.

“Your secretary, Tiberio, is dead. The barbarian killed him and four of my comrades. We carried their bodies to the meeting place. There was nothing of value on the barbarian except a few silver coins. Any further orders?”

“None!” gasped Publio, his lips white. “Go!”

The thug bowed and hurried out, thinking vaguely that Publio was a man of weak stomach and few words.

The four Khitans emerged from behind the tapestry.

“Who was that man talking about?” the tallest one demanded.

“A wandering stranger who wronged me,” panted Publio.