**9. A BREAK IN THE CHAIN**

It was a long day. Each time there came a knock at the door or a brisk step in the street, I imagined it must be either Holmes returning or an answer to his advertisement. I tried to read, but my thoughts kept drifting back to our strange pursuit and the mismatched, villainous pair we were hunting. Could there be, I wondered, some fundamental flaw in my companion’s reasoning? Might he be the victim of some vast self-deception? Was it possible that his quick, speculative mind had built this wild theory upon faulty foundations?

I had never known him to be wrong; yet even the sharpest reasoner may sometimes be misled. It seemed to me that he might stumble through an over-refinement of logic—his tendency to prefer a subtle, bizarre explanation when a simpler, more ordinary one lay ready to hand. And yet, on the other side, I had seen the evidence myself and heard the grounds for his deductions. Looking back over the long chain of curious circumstances—many trivial in themselves, yet all pointing the same way—I could not deny that even if Holmes’s explanation were mistaken, the true one must be equally strange and startling.

At three o’clock that afternoon the bell rang loudly. I heard an authoritative voice in the hall, and to my surprise Mr. Athelney Jones himself was shown up.

He was very different, however, from the blunt, masterful apostle of common sense who had taken charge so confidently at Upper Norwood. His face was downcast, his manner subdued—almost apologetic.

“Good day, sir; good day,” he said. “Mr. Sherlock Holmes is out, I understand.”

“Yes, and I can’t be sure when he’ll be back. But perhaps you’d care to wait. Take that chair and try one of these cigars.”

“Thank you; I don’t mind if I do,” he said, mopping his face with a red bandanna handkerchief.

“And a whiskey and soda?”

“Well—half a glass. It’s very hot for the time of year, and I’ve had a good deal to worry and try me. You know my theory about this Norwood case?”

“I remember you put one forward.”

“Well, I’ve been forced to reconsider it. I had my net drawn tight round Mr. Sholto, sir, when—pop!—he slipped through a hole in the middle of it. He proved an alibi that couldn’t be shaken. From the moment he left his brother’s room he was never out of someone’s sight. So it couldn’t have been him climbing over roofs and through trapdoors. It’s a very dark case, and my professional credit is at—”

“This sounds promising. He’s clearly picked up the trail again,” I said.

“Ah, so he’s made a mistake as well,” Jones cried, with obvious satisfaction. “Even the best of us lose the scent sometimes. Of course, it may turn out to be a false alarm; but it’s my duty, as an officer of the law, to let no chance slip. But there’s someone at the door. Perhaps it’s him.”

A heavy step came up the stairs, accompanied by loud wheezing and rattling, like a man hard pressed for breath. Once or twice he stopped, as if the climb were too much for him; but at last he reached our door and entered. His appearance matched the sounds we had heard. He was an elderly man in seafaring clothes, an old pea-jacket buttoned up to his throat. His back was bent, his knees unsteady, and his breathing painfully asthmatic. Leaning on a thick oak cudgel, his shoulders rose and fell with the effort of dragging air into his lungs. A coloured scarf was wrapped around his chin, and I could see little of his face except a pair of sharp dark eyes under bushy white brows and long grey side-whiskers. Altogether he gave me the impression of a respectable ship’s captain brought low by age and poverty.

“What is it, my man?” I asked.

He looked around in the slow, deliberate way of old age.

“Is Mr. Sherlock Holmes here?” he said.

“No; but I’m acting for him. You can tell me any message you have for him.”

“It was to him himself I was to tell it,” he said.

“But I tell you I’m acting for him. Was it about Mordecai Smith’s boat?”

“Yes. I knows well where it is. An’ I knows where the men he’s after are. An’ I knows where the treasure is. I knows all about it.”

“Then tell me, and I’ll let him know.”

“It was to him I was to tell it,” he repeated, with the peevish obstinacy of a very old man.

“Then you’ll have to wait for him.”

“No, no; I ain’t goin’ to lose a whole day to please no one. If Mr. Holmes ain’t here, then Mr. Holmes can find it all out for himself. I don’t care for the look of either of you, and I won’t tell a word.”

He shuffled toward the door, but Athelney Jones stepped in front of him.

“Wait a moment, my friend,” he said. “You have important information, and you’re not going to walk off. We’ll keep you—whether you like it or not—until our friend returns.”

The old man made a little rush for the door, but when Athelney Jones planted his broad back against it, he saw how useless resistance would be.

“Pretty sort o’ treatment this!” he shouted, stamping his stick. “I come here to see a gentleman, and you two—who I never set eyes on in my life—seize me and treat me like this!”

“You won’t be any the worse for it,” I said. “We’ll make it up to you for the loss of your time. Sit here on the sofa, and you won’t have long to wait.”

He came over sullenly enough and sat down with his face resting in his hands. Jones and I went back to our cigars and our talk. Suddenly, however, Holmes’s voice cut in on us.

“I think you might offer me a cigar too,” he said.

We both started in our chairs. There was Holmes, sitting close beside us, with an air of quiet amusement.

“Holmes!” I cried. “You here! But where’s the old man?”

“Here’s the old man,” he said, holding out a heap of white hair. “Here he is—wig, whiskers, eyebrows, and all. I thought my disguise was fairly good, but I hardly expected it to stand that test.”

“Ah, you rogue!” Jones cried, delighted. “You’d have made an actor—and a rare one. You had the proper workhouse cough, and those weak legs of yours are worth ten pounds a week. I thought I recognised the glint in your eye, though. You didn’t slip away from us so easily, you see.”

“I’ve been working in that get-up all day,” he said, lighting his cigar. “You see, a good many of the criminal class are beginning to know me—especially since our friend here took to publishing some of my cases—so I can only go on the warpath under some simple disguise like this. You got my wire?”

“Yes; that’s what brought me here.”

“How has your case gone?”

“It’s come to nothing. I’ve had to release two of my prisoners, and there’s no evidence against the other two.”

“Never mind. We’ll give you two others in their place. But you must put yourself under my orders. You’re welcome to all the official credit, but you must act along the line I lay down. Agreed?”

“Entirely—if you’ll help me get the men.”

“Good. Then, first, I’ll want a fast police boat—a steam launch—at the Westminster Stairs at seven o’clock.”

“That’s easily arranged. There’s always one about there; but I can step across the road and telephone to make sure.”

“Then I’ll want two reliable men, in case there’s resistance.”

“There’ll be two or three in the boat. What else?”

“When we secure the men, we’ll get the treasure. I think it would give my friend here pleasure to take the box round to the young lady to whom half of it rightfully belongs. Let—”