**6. SHERLOCK HOLMES GIVES A DEMONSTRATION**

“That was the idea that struck me the instant I saw the drawn muscles of the face. When I entered the room, I looked at once for the means by which the poison had entered the system. As you saw, I found a thorn that had been driven—or shot, with no great force—into the scalp. Notice that the spot struck is precisely the one that would have been turned toward the hole in the ceiling if the man had been sitting upright in his chair. Now, examine the thorn.”

I picked it up gingerly and held it to the lantern light. It was long, sharp, and black, with a glazed appearance near the point, as though some gummy substance had dried upon it. The blunt end had been trimmed and rounded with a knife.

“Is that an English thorn?” he asked.

“No, it certainly isn’t.”

“With all these data, you ought to be able to draw a sound inference. But here come the regulars, so the auxiliary forces may beat a retreat.”

As he spoke, approaching footsteps rang loudly along the passage, and a very stout, portly man in a grey suit strode heavily into the room. He was red-faced, burly, and full-blooded, with a pair of very small, twinkling eyes that peered sharply out from between swollen, puffy lids. Close behind him came an inspector in uniform, and the still-trembling Thaddeus Sholto.

“Here’s a business!” the newcomer cried in a muffled, husky voice. “Here’s a pretty business! But who are all these? Why, the house seems as full as a rabbit warren!”

“I think you may remember me, Mr. Athelney Jones,” said Holmes quietly.

“Why, of course I do!” he wheezed. “It’s Mr. Sherlock Holmes—the theorist. Remember you? I’ll never forget how you lectured us all about causes and inferences and effects in the Bishopgate jewel case. It’s true you put us on the right track, but you’ll admit now it was more by good luck than good guidance.”

“It was a very simple piece of reasoning.”

“Oh, come now, come! Never be ashamed to own up. But what’s all this? Bad business! Bad business! Hard facts here—no room for theories. How lucky I happened to be out at Norwood on another case! I was at the station when the message arrived. What do you think the man died of?”

“Oh, this is hardly a case for me to theorize about,” said Holmes dryly.

“No, no. Still, we can’t deny you hit the nail on the head sometimes. Dear me! Door locked, I understand. Jewels worth half a million missing. How was the window?”

“Fastened; but there are footsteps on the sill.”

“Well, well—if it was fastened, the steps can have nothing to do with the matter. That’s common sense. The man might have died in a fit; but then the jewels are missing. Ha! I have a theory. These flashes come to me at times. Just step outside, sergeant—and you too, Mr. Sholto. Your friend can remain. What do you think of this, Holmes? Sholto was, by his own confession, with his brother last night. The brother died in a fit, and Sholto walked off with the treasure. How’s that?”

“On which the dead man—”

“He might find something,” Holmes remarked with a shrug. “He has the occasional flash of sense. *There are no fools so troublesome as those with a bit of wit.*”

“You see!” said Athelney Jones, coming back up the steps. “Facts beat mere theories after all. My view of the case is confirmed. There’s a trapdoor leading to the roof, and it’s partly open.”

“It was I who opened it.”

“Oh, indeed! So you did notice it, then?” He looked a little crestfallen at that. “Well, whoever noticed it, it shows how our gentleman got away. Inspector!”

“Yes, sir,” came the answer from the passage.

“Ask Mr. Sholto to step this way.—Mr. Sholto, it is my duty to inform you that anything you say may be used against you. I arrest you, in the Queen’s name, as being concerned in the death of your brother.”

“There, now! Didn’t I tell you!” cried the poor little man, flinging out his hands and staring from one to the other of us.

“Don’t distress yourself about it, Mr. Sholto,” said Holmes. “I think I can undertake to clear you of the charge.”

“Don’t promise too much, Mr. Theorist—don’t promise too much!” snapped the detective. “You may find it harder than you think.”

“Not only will I clear him, Mr. Jones, but I’ll make you a free gift of the name and description of one of the two people who were in this room last night. His name, I have every reason to believe, is Jonathan Small. He’s poorly educated—small, active—with his right leg missing and a wooden stump worn away on the inner side. His left boot has a coarse, square-toed sole with an iron band round the heel. He’s middle-aged, deeply sunburned, and has been a convict. These few indications may be of some use to you, along with the fact that there’s a good deal of skin missing from the palm of his hand. The other man—”

“Ah! The other man—?” asked Athelney Jones in a sneering tone, though I could easily see how much Holmes’s precision had impressed him all the same.

“Is a rather curious person,” said Sherlock Holmes, turning on his heel. “I hope before very long to be able to introduce you to the pair of them.—A word with you, Watson.”

He led me out to the head of the stairs.

“This unexpected turn,” he said, “has rather made us lose sight of the original purpose of our journey.”

“I was just thinking that,” I answered. “It isn’t right that Miss Morstan should remain in this stricken house.”

“No. You must escort her home. She lives with Mrs. Cecil Forrester in Lower Camberwell, so it’s not very far. I’ll wait for you here if you’ll drive back again. Or perhaps you’re too tired?”

“Not at all. I don’t think I could rest until I know more of this fantastic business. I’ve seen something of the rough side of life, but I give you my word that this rapid succession of strange surprises tonight has shaken my nerve completely. Still, I should like to see it through with you, now that I’ve come this far.”

“Your presence will be of great service to me,” he said. “We’ll work the case out independently and leave this fellow Jones to crow over any wild-goose chase he cares to invent. When you’ve dropped Miss Morstan, I want you to go on to No. 3, Pinchin Lane, down near the water’s edge at Lambeth. The third house on the right is a bird-stuffer’s—Sherman is his name. You’ll see a weasel holding a young rabbit in the window. Rouse old Sherman and tell him, with my compliments, that I want Toby at once. Bring Toby back in the cab with you.”

“A dog, I suppose.”

“Yes—a queer mongrel, with an astonishing power of scent. I’d rather have Toby’s help than the whole detective force of London.”

“Then I’ll bring him,” said I. “It’s one o’clock now. I ought to be back before three, if I can get a fresh horse.”

“And I,” said Holmes, “shall see what I can learn from Mrs. Bernstone and from the Indian servant who, Mr. Thaddeus tells me, sleeps in the next garret. Then I’ll study the great Jones’s methods and listen to his not-too-delicate sarcasms. *We are used to seeing people mock what they do not understand.* Goethe is always sharp.”