3. IN QUEST OF A SOLUTION  

It was a September evening, not yet seven o’clock, but the day had been dreary, and a thick, drizzling fog lay low over the great city. Mud-coloured clouds sagged heavily above the muddy streets. Down the Strand, the lamps were only blurred smears of diffused light, casting weak circles of glow upon the greasy pavement. The yellow gleam from the shop windows streamed into the steamy air and threw a murky, shifting radiance across the crowded roadway. To my mind, there was something eerie and ghostlike in the endless procession of faces that flickered through those narrow bars of light—sad and glad, haggard and merry alike. Like all humankind, they passed from gloom into light, and then back into gloom again.  

I am not a man given to fancies, but the dull, oppressive evening, together with the strange business we were engaged in, combined to—  

“Are you the party coming with Miss Morstan?” he asked.  

“I am Miss Morstan, and these two gentlemen are my friends,” she replied.  

He fixed us with a pair of remarkably sharp, searching eyes.  

“You’ll excuse me, miss,” he said, with a stubborn, dogged air, “but I was told to ask for your word that neither of your companions is a police officer.”  

“You have my word,” she answered.  

He gave a shrill whistle. At once a street urchin led up a four-wheeler and pulled open the door. The man who had spoken to us climbed up to the box, while we took our seats inside. We had barely settled before the driver flicked his whip, and we shot off at a furious pace through the fog-choked streets.  

It was a strange situation. We were being driven to an unknown place, on an unknown errand. Yet our invitation was either an outright hoax—which seemed unthinkable—or else we had every reason to believe that serious matters might depend upon this journey. Miss Morstan’s manner was as steady and composed as ever. I tried to distract and entertain her with recollections of my adventures in Afghanistan; but the truth is, I was so keyed up by our position, and so curious about our destination, that my stories became a little tangled. To this day she insists that I told her one stirring anecdote about how a musket looked into my tent in the dead of night, and how I fired a double-barrelled tiger cub at it.  

At first I had some notion of the direction we were taking; but soon, with our speed, the fog, and my own limited knowledge of London, I lost all sense of where we were, knowing only that we seemed to be travelling a very long way. Sherlock Holmes, however, was never at a loss, and he murmured the names as the cab clattered through squares and twisted in and out of narrow side streets.  

“Rochester Row,” said he. “Now Vincent Square. Now we’re out on Vauxhall Bridge Road. We’re heading for the Surrey side, it seems. Yes, I thought so. Now we’re on the bridge. You can catch glimpses of the river.”  

And we did—one fleeting view of the Thames, with the lamps shining on the broad, silent water. But the cab tore on and was soon swallowed up in a maze of streets on the far side.  

“Wordsworth Road,” said my companion. “Priory Road. Lark Hall Lane. Stockwell Place. Robert Street. Cold Harbor Lane. Our business doesn’t seem to be taking us into very fashionable parts.”  

We had, in fact, come to a dubious, forbidding neighbourhood. Long stretches of drab brick houses were broken only by the harsh glare and gaudy brightness of public houses on the corners. Then came rows of two-storey villas, each with a tiny front garden, and then again endless lines of new, raw brick buildings—the monstrous tentacles the great city was thrusting out into the countryside. At last the cab pulled up at the third house in a newly built terrace. None of the other houses were occupied, and the one where we stopped was as dark as its neighbours, save for a single glimmer in the kitchen window.  

When we knocked, however, the door was flung open at once by a Hindu servant, wearing a yellow turban, loose white garments, and a yellow sash. There was something oddly incongruous about this Oriental figure framed in the ordinary doorway of a third-rate suburban house.  

“The Sahib is waiting for you,” he said—and even as he spoke, a high, piping voice came from some inner room.  

“Show them in to me, khitmutgar!” it cried. “Show them straight in to me!”