2. THE STATEMENT OF THE CASE

As she spoke, she opened a flat case and showed me six of the finest pearls I had ever seen.

“Your statement is most interesting,” said Sherlock Holmes. “Has anything else occurred?”

“Yes—and only this morning. That is why I have come to you. I received this letter today, which you may read for yourself.”

“Thank you,” said Holmes. “The envelope as well, please. Postmark: London, S.W. Date: July 7. Hm! A man’s thumbprint on the corner—probably the postman’s. Excellent quality paper. En—”

“But would he come?” she asked, a note of pleading in her voice and face.

“I would be proud and glad,” I said fervently, “if I can be of any help.”

“You are both very kind,” she replied. “I live very quietly, and I have no friends to turn to. If I am here at six, that will do, I suppose?”

“You must not be later,” said Holmes. “There is one other point, though. Is this handwriting the same as that on the pearl-box addresses?”

“I have them here,” she said, producing half a dozen scraps of paper.

“You really are the ideal client. You have exactly the right instinct. Let us see, then.” He spread the papers on the table and cast quick, darting glances from one to another. “They’re disguised hands, except for the letter,” he said at last, “but there’s no doubt about the authorship. See how the irrepressible Greek *e* keeps breaking through, and note the little flourish on the final *s*. They are certainly by the same person. I should not like to raise false hopes, Miss Morstan, but is there any resemblance between this hand and your father’s?”

“Nothing could be more different.”

“I expected you would say that. Then we shall look for you at six. Please allow me to keep these papers. I may be able to look into the matter before then. It is only half-past three. *Au revoir*, then.”

“*Au revoir*,” said our visitor; and with a bright, kindly glance from one of us to the other, she slipped her pearl-box back into her bodice and hurried away. I stood at the window and watched her walking briskly down the street until the grey turban and white feather were no more than a speck in the sombre crowd.

“What a remarkably attractive woman!” I exclaimed, turning to my companion.

He had lit his pipe again and was leaning back with heavy-lidded eyes.

“Is she?” he said lazily. “I didn’t notice.”

“You really are an automaton—a calculating machine!” I cried. “At times there is something positively inhuman about you.”

He smiled softly. “It is of the first importance,” he said, “not to let your judgment be warped by personal qualities. A client is to me a mere unit—a factor in a problem. Emotional qualities are hostile to clear reasoning. I assure you, the most charming woman I ever knew was hanged for poisoning three little children for their insurance money, and the most repellent man I know is a philanthropist who has spent nearly a quarter of a million on the London poor.”

“In this case, however—”

“I never make exceptions. An exception disproves the rule. Have you ever studied character in handwriting? What do you make of this fellow’s scrawl?”

“It is legible and regular,” I answered. “A man with business habits and some force of character.”

Holmes shook his head. “Look at his long letters,” he said. “They hardly rise above the common run. That *d* might be an *a*, and that *l* an *e*. Men of character always distinguish their long letters, however illegibly they write. There is wavering in his *k*’s and self-esteem in his capitals. I’m going out now. I have a few references to check. Let me recommend this book—one of the most remarkable ever written. It is Winwood Reade’s *Martyrdom of Man*. I shall be back in an hour.”

I sat by the window with the volume in my hand, but my thoughts were far from the author’s daring speculations. My mind kept returning to our late visitor—her smiles, the deep, rich tones of her voice, the strange mystery that hung over her life. If she had been seventeen when her father disappeared, she must be seven-and-twenty now—a sweet age, when youth has lost its self-consciousness and been a little sobered by experience. So I sat and brooded until thoughts so dangerous came into my head that I hurried to my desk and plunged fiercely into the latest treatise on pathology. What was I—an army surgeon with a weak leg and an even weaker bank account—that I should dare to think such things? She was a unit, a factor—nothing more. If my future was dark, surely it was better to face it like a man than to try to brighten it with mere will-o’-the-wisps of imagination.