11. THE GREAT AGRA TREASURE

She sat by the open window, dressed in a light, white fabric, with a touch of scarlet at her neck and waist. The soft glow of a shaded lamp fell across her as she leaned back in a wicker chair, playing over her sweet, serious face and catching, in a dull metallic gleam, the rich coils of her luxuriant hair. One white arm and hand hung over the side of the chair, and her whole posture spoke of deep, absorbing melancholy. At the sound of my footsteps, however, she sprang up, and a bright flush of surprise and pleasure coloured her pale cheeks.

“I heard a cab pull up,” she said. “I thought Mrs. Forrester had returned very early, but I never imagined it might be you. What news have you brought me?”

“I’ve brought something better than news,” I said, setting the box on the table and speaking cheerfully and loudly, though my heart was heavy within me. “I’ve brought you something worth all the news in the world. I’ve brought you a fortune.”

She glanced at the iron box. “So that’s the treasure?” she asked coolly.

“Yes—this is the great Agra treasure. Half is yours and half is Thaddeus Sholto’s. You’ll have a couple of hundred thousand each. Think of it! An annuity of ten thousand pounds. There will be few richer young ladies in England. Isn’t it glorious?”

I suspect I overplayed my delight, and that she heard the false note in my congratulations, for I saw her eyebrows lift slightly, and she looked at me with a curious expression.

“If I have it,” she said, “I owe it to you.”

“No, no,” I answered quickly, “not to me, but to my friend Sherlock Holmes. With all the will in the world, I could never have followed a clue that taxed even his analytical genius. As it was, we nearly lost it at the last moment.”

“Please sit down and tell me everything, Dr. Watson,” she said.

I told her briefly what had happened since I had last seen her—Holmes’s new method of search, the discovery of the *Aurora*, the arrival of Athelney Jones, our evening expedition, and the wild chase down the Thames. She listened with parted lips and shining eyes as I recounted our adventures. When I spoke of the dart that had so narrowly missed us, she turned so pale that I feared she might faint.

“It’s nothing,” she said, as I hurried to pour her some water. “I’m all right again. It shocked me to hear that I had put my friends in such dreadful danger.”

“That’s over now,” I said. “It was nothing. I won’t tell you any more gloomy details. Let’s turn to something brighter. There’s the treasure. What could be brighter than that? I got permission to bring it with me, thinking it would please you to be the first to see it.”

“It would interest me very much,” she said. There was no eagerness in her voice, though. No doubt she felt it might seem ungracious to appear indifferent to a prize that had cost so much to win.

“What a pretty box!” she said, bending over it. “This is Indian work, I suppose?”

“Yes—Benares metalwork.”

“And so heavy!” she exclaimed, trying to lift it. “The box alone must be worth something. Where’s the key?”

“Small threw it into the Thames,” I answered. “I’ll have to borrow Mrs. Forrester’s poker.” On the front was a thick, broad hasp, worked into the figure of a seated Buddha. I thrust the end of the poker beneath it and twisted it outward as a lever. The hasp sprang open with a loud crack. With trembling fingers I flung back the lid. We both stood staring in astonishment. The box was empty!

No wonder it was heavy. The iron was two-thirds of an inch thick all around. It was massive, well made, and solid—like a chest built to carry things of great value—but not a shred or speck of metal or jewellery lay inside. It was utterly, completely empty.

“The treasure is lost,” Miss Morstan said calmly.

As I heard the words and grasped their meaning, it was as if a great shadow passed out of my soul. I had not known how that Agra treasure had weighed upon me until now, when it was finally lifted away. It was selfish, no doubt—disloyal, wrong—but I could think of nothing except that the golden barrier was gone from between us. “Thank God!” I burst out from the bottom of my heart.

She looked at me with a quick, questioning smile. “Why do you say that?” she asked.

“Because you’re within my reach again,” I said, taking her hand. She did not draw it away. “Because I love you, Mary, as truly as any man ever loved a woman. Because this treasure—these riches—sealed my lips. Now that they’re gone, I can tell you how I love you. That’s why I said, ‘Thank God.’”

“Then I say, ‘