11. THE GREAT AGRA TREASURE

Our prisoner sat in the cabin, facing the iron box for which he had done so much—and waited so long—to obtain. He was a sunburnt man with reckless eyes, his mahogany face lined and furrowed by years of hardship in the open air. There was something striking in the thrust of his bearded chin: the mark of a man not easily turned from his purpose. He might have been about fifty, for his thick black curls were heavily streaked with grey. When his face was at rest it was not unpleasant, though his heavy brows and pugnacious chin could, as I had lately seen, give him a dreadful look when anger took him. Now he sat with his handcuffed hands upon his lap, his head bowed upon his breast, and his sharp, glittering eyes fixed on the box that had been the cause of his crimes. It seemed to me there was more sorrow than rage in his rigid, controlled expression. Once he glanced up at me, and there was a flicker of something like humour in his eyes.

“Well, Jonathan Small,” said Holmes, striking a match and lighting a cigar, “I’m sorry it has come to this.”

“And so am I, sir,” he answered frankly. “But I don’t believe I can swing for the job. I give you my word on the Book I never raised a hand against Mr. Sholto. It was that little hell-hound Tonga who drove one of his cursed darts into him. I had no part in it, sir. I was as grieved as if he’d been my own blood. I laid into the little devil with the slack end of the rope for it, but it was done, and I couldn’t undo it.”

“Have a cigar,” said Holmes. “And you’d better take a pull from my flask—you’re soaked. How did you expect a man as small and weak as that black fellow to overpower Mr. Sholto and hold him while you were climbing the rope?”

“You seem to know as much about it as if you’d been there, sir. The truth is, I hoped to find the room empty. I knew the ways of the house well enough, and it was the time when Mr. Sholto usually went down to supper. I’ll make no secret of it. The best defence I can offer is the plain truth. Now, if it had been the old major, I’d have swung for him with a light heart. I’d have thought no more of knifing him than of smoking this cigar. But it’s damned hard that I should be hauled up over this young Sholto, with whom I’d no quarrel at all.”

“You’re in the charge of Mr. Athelney Jones of Scotland Yard. He’ll bring you up to my rooms, and I shall ask you for a true account of the whole matter. You must make a clean breast of it, for if you do, I hope I may be able to help you. I think I can prove the poison acts so quickly that the man was dead before you ever reached the room.”

“He was, sir. I never got such a shock in my life as when I saw him grinning at me, his head cocked on his shoulder, as I came through the window. It shook me to the core, sir. I’d have half killed Tonga for it if he hadn’t scrambled off. That’s how he came to leave his club behind—and some of his darts too, as he tells me—which I dare say helped to put you on our track; though how you kept to it is more than I can tell. I bear you no malice for it. But it does seem a queer thing,” he added with a bitter smile, “that I, with a fair claim to near half a million in money, should spend the first half of my life building a breakwater in the Andamans, and am like to spend the other half digging drains at Dartmoor. It was an evil day for me when I first set eyes on the merchant Achmet and got mixed up with the Agra treasure—treasure that has never yet brought anything but a curse on the man who owned it. To him it brought murder; to Major Sholto it brought fear and guilt; to me it has meant slavery for life.”

At that moment Athelney Jones pushed his broad face and heavy shoulders into the cramped cabin.

“Quite a family party,” he remarked. “I think I’ll have a pull at that flask, Holmes. Well, I suppose we can all congratulate one another. Pity we didn’t take the other alive, but there was no choice. I say, Holmes, you must admit you cut it rather fine. It was all we could do to overhaul her.”

“All’s well that ends well,” said Holmes. “But I certainly didn’t know the *Aurora* was such a clipper.”

“Smith says she’s one of the fastest launches on the river, and that if he’d had another man to help with the engines we’d never have caught her. He swears he knew nothing of this Norwood business.”

“Nor he did!” cried our prisoner. “Not a word. I chose his launch because I’d heard she was a flyer. We told him nothing, but we paid him well, and he was to get something handsome if we reached our vessel, the *Esmeralda*, at Gravesend—outward bound for the Brazils.”

“Well, if he’s done no wrong, we’ll see that no wrong comes to him. If we’re quick enough at catching our men, we’re not so quick at condemning them.”

It was amusing to see how important Jones was already beginning to look on the strength of the capture.

They put me down at Vauxhall with my heavy iron box and a bluff, good-humoured inspector for company. A quarter of an hour’s drive took us to Mrs. Cecil Forrester’s. The servant looked surprised at so late a caller. Mrs. Cecil Forrester was out for the evening, she said, and likely to be very late. Miss Morstan, however, was in the drawing-room; so to the drawing-room I went, box in hand, leaving the obliging inspector in the cab.