10. THE END OF THE ISLANDER

Our meal was a cheerful one. Holmes could talk superbly when he chose, and that night he did choose. He seemed keyed to a pitch of nervous excitement; I had never known him more brilliant. He ranged rapidly over miracle-plays, medieval pottery, Stradivarius violins, the Buddhism of Ceylon, and the warships of the future—taking up each subject as though he had made a special study of it. His bright humour showed how far he had swung back from the black depression of the past few days. Athelney Jones, too, proved a genial companion when he relaxed, attacking his dinner with the air of a true *bon vivant*. As for myself, I felt buoyant at the thought that we were nearing the end of our work, and I caught something of Holmes’s gaiety.

Not one of us referred during dinner to the cause that had brought us together. When the table was cleared, Holmes glanced at his watch and filled three glasses with port.

“One toast,” said he, “to the success of our little expedition. And now it is high time we were off. Have you a pistol, Watson?”

“I have my old service revolver in my desk.”

“Then you’d better take it. It’s as well to be prepared. I see the cab is at the door. I ordered it for half-past six.”

It was a little after seven when we reached Westminster Wharf and found our launch waiting. Holmes looked it over with a critical eye.

“Is there anything to show it’s a police boat?”

“Yes—that green lamp at the side.”

“Then take it off.”

The small alteration was made. We stepped aboard and the ropes were cast off. Jones, Holmes, and I sat in the stern. One man was at the tiller, one tended the engines, and two burly police inspectors were forward.

“Where to?” asked Jones.

“To the Tower. Tell them to stop opposite Jacobson’s Yard.”

Our craft was clearly a fast one. We tore past long lines of loaded barges as if they were standing still. Holmes smiled with satisfaction as we overhauled a river steamer and left her behind.

“We ought to be able to catch anything on the river,” he said.

“Well, hardly that. But there aren’t many launches that can beat us.”

“We shall have to catch the *Aurora*, and she has a reputation for being a clipper. I’ll tell you how matters stand, Watson. You remember how annoyed I was at being checked by so small a thing?”

“Yes.”

“Well, I gave my mind a complete rest by throwing myself into a chemical analysis. One of our greatest statesmen has said that a change of work is the best rest—and it is. When I had succeeded in dissolving the hydrocarbon I was working on, I came back to the Sholto business and thought the whole affair through again.

“My boys had been up and down the river without result. The launch was not at any landing-stage or wharf, nor had it returned. Yet it could hardly have been sunk to hide their tracks—though that always remained a possible hypothesis if everything else failed. I knew that this man Small had a certain amount of low cunning, but I did not think him capable of anything requiring delicate finesse. That is usually the product of a better education.

“Then I reflected that since he had certainly been in London for some time—as we had proof that he kept a constant watch on Pondicherry Lodge—he could hardly leave at a moment’s notice, but would need a little time, even if only a day, to set his affairs in order. That, at any rate, was the balance of probability.”

“It seems to me rather weak,” said I. “It’s more likely that he had arranged his affairs before he ever set out on his expedition.”

“No, I hardly think so. This lair of his would be too valuable a refuge, in case of need, for him to abandon until he was sure he could do without it. But a second consideration occurred to me. Jonathan Small must have felt that the peculiar appearance of his companion, however much he might have disguised him with an overcoat, would cause talk and might even be linked with this Norwood tragedy. He was sharp enough to see that.

“They had left their headquarters under cover of darkness, and he would want to get back before full daylight. Now, it was past three o’clock, according to Mrs. Smith, when they got the boat. It would be quite light, and people would be stirring within an hour or so. Therefore, I argued, they did not go very far. They paid Smith well to keep quiet, kept his launch in reserve for their final escape, and hurried to their lodgings with the treasure-box. In a couple of nights, when they had time to see what line the papers took and whether there was any suspicion, they would make their way under cover of darkness to some ship at Gravesend or in the Downs, where no doubt they had already arranged passages to America or the Colonies.”

“But the launch? They couldn’t have taken that to their lodgings.”

“Exactly. I argued that the launch could not be far away, in spite of its disappearance. I then put myself in Small’s place and looked at it as a man of his abilities would. He would probably see that to send the launch back, or to keep it at a wharf, would make pursuit easy if the police did get onto his trail. How, then, could he hide the launch and yet keep her close at hand when he needed her?

“I asked myself what I should do if I were in his shoes. I could think of only one way. I might hand the launch over to some boat-builder—”

“You’ve laid it all out very neatly, whether they’re the right men or not,” said Jones; “but if it were in my hands, I’d have had a squad of police in Jacobson’s Yard and nabbed them the moment they came down.”

“Which would have been never. This man Small is a pretty shrewd fellow. He’d send a scout ahead, and if anything so much as smelled wrong, he’d lie low for another week.”

“But you could have kept on Mordecai Smith and been led to their hiding place,” said I.

“In that case I’d have wasted my day. It’s a hundred to one that Smith doesn’t know where they live. So long as he has liquor and good pay, why should he ask questions? They send him messages telling him what to do. No—I’ve thought through every possible line, and this is the best.”

While we talked, we were shooting under the long chain of bridges that span the Thames. As we passed the City, the last rays of the sun gilded the cross on the summit of St. Paul’s. It was twilight before we reached the Tower.

“That’s Jacobson’s Yard,” said Holmes, pointing to a bristle of masts and rigging on the Surrey side. “Cruise gently up and down here, under cover of that string of lighters.” He took a pair of night-glasses from his pocket and studied the shore for some time. “I see my sentry at his post,” he said, “but no sign of a handkerchief.”

“Suppose we go a little way downstream and lie in wait for them,” said Jones eagerly. We were all eager by then—even the policemen and the stokers, who had only the vaguest notion of what was afoot.