I. A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA  

I.

To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman. I have rarely heard him refer to her by any other name. In his eyes she outshines and dominates her entire sex. It was not that he felt anything resembling love for Irene Adler. All emotions—and that one in particular—were repugnant to his cold, precise, but wonderfully balanced mind. He was, as I see it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine the world has ever known; but as a lover he would have put himself in a false position. He never spoke of the softer passions except with a jest and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for lifting the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for a trained reasoner to allow such intrusions into his own delicate and finely tuned temperament would be to introduce a distracting element that might cast doubt on all his mental results. A grain of sand in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own powerful lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature like his. And yet, for him there was only one woman, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of doubtful and questionable memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had gradually drawn us apart. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred interests that spring up around the man who first finds himself master of his own household, were enough to absorb all my attention; while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our old rooms in Baker Street, buried among his books, and alternating week by week between cocaine and ambition—the lethargy of the drug and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. He was still, as always, deeply fascinated by the study of crime, and employed his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following up clues and solving mysteries which the official police had given up as hopeless. From time to time I heard vague reports of his activities: of his summons to Odessa in the Trepoff murder case, of his clearing up the strange tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and finally of the mission he had carried out so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of his activity, however—of which I knew only what every reader of the daily papers might know—I knew little of my former friend and companion.

One night—it was the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a visit to a patient (for I had now gone back into civilian practice), and my route took me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated in my mind with my courtship and with the dark events of A Study in Scarlet, I was seized by a strong desire to see Holmes again and to learn how he was using his extraordinary powers. His rooms were brightly lit, and even as I looked up I saw his tall, thin figure pass twice in dark silhouette across the blind. He was pacing the room quickly, eagerly, with his head sunk on his chest and his hands clasped behind his back. To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story. He was at work again. He had risen from his drug-induced dreams and was hot on the trail of some new problem. I rang the bell and was shown up to the room which had once been partly mine.

His manner was not effusive. It rarely was. But he was glad to see me, I think. With hardly a word, but with a friendly look, he waved me to an armchair, tossed me his cigar case, and pointed out a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire and examined me in his peculiar, introspective way.

“Married life suits you,” he remarked. “I think, Watson, you’ve put on seven and a half pounds since I last saw you.”

“Seven,” I replied.

“Really, I’d have thought a little more. Just a shade more, I’d say, Watson. And back in practice again, I see. You didn’t tell me you meant to go back into harness.”

“Then how do you know?”

“I see it. I deduce it. How do I know that you’ve been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless maid?”

“My dear Holmes,” I said, “this is too much. You’d certainly have been burned if you’d lived a few centuries ago. It’s true that I took a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful state, but as I’ve changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it. As for Mary Jane, she’s incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice; but there again, I can’t see how you work it out.”

He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.

“It’s the simplest thing in the world,” he said. “My eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight catches it, the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts. Obviously they were made by someone who very carelessly scraped around the edge of the sole to remove caked mud. Hence, you see, my double deduction: that you’ve been out in vile weather, and that you have a particularly malevolent, boot-slitting specimen of a London maid-of-all-work. As to your practice, if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with a black stain of nitrate of silver on his right forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his top hat where he has tucked away his stethoscope, I would have to be very