“Then please, go on,” said Holmes, closing his eyes again.

“The facts are briefly these: About five years ago, during a long stay in Warsaw, I became acquainted with the well-known adventuress Irene Adler. The name is no doubt familiar to you.”

“Be so good as to look her up in my index, Doctor,” murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.

For years he had kept a system of filing every newspaper paragraph about notable people and events, so that it was hard to name any subject or person on which he could not instantly produce information. In this case I found her biography wedged between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a naval staff-commander who had written a monograph on deep-sea fishes.

“Let me see!” said Holmes. “Hmm! Born in New Jersey in 1858. Contralto—hmm! La Scala—hmm! Prima donna at the Imperial Opera of Warsaw—yes! Retired from the operatic stage—ah! Living in London—quite so! As I understand it, Your Majesty became involved with this young lady, wrote her some compromising letters, and now wishes to get those letters back.”

“Exactly. But how—”

“Was there a secret marriage?”

“None.”

“No legal documents or certificates?”

“None.”

“Then I don’t follow you, Your Majesty. If this young lady produces your letters for blackmail or any other purpose, how is she to prove they’re genuine?”

“There is the handwriting.”

“Nonsense. Forgery.”

“My private stationery.”

“Stolen.”

“My personal seal.”

“Copied.”

“My photograph.”

“Purchased.”

“We are both in the photograph.”

“Oh, dear! That is very bad. Your Majesty has indeed been indiscreet.”

“I was mad—insane.”

“You have seriously compromised yourself.”

“I was only the Crown Prince then. I was young. I am only thirty now.”

“It must be recovered.”

“We have tried and failed.”

“Your Majesty must pay. It must be bought.”

“She will not sell.”

“Then it must be stolen.”

“Five attempts have been made. Twice burglars in my pay have ransacked her house. Once we intercepted her luggage when she was travelling. Twice she has been waylaid. Nothing has come of it.”

“No trace of it?”

“Absolutely none.”

Holmes laughed. “It’s quite a charming little problem,” he said.

“But a very serious one for me,” the King replied reproachfully.

“Very much so. And what does she intend to do with the photograph?”

“Ruin me.”

“But how?”

“I am about to be married.”

“So I have heard.”

“To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of Scandinavia. You may know the strict principles of her family. She is herself the very soul of delicacy. The slightest shadow of doubt about my conduct would break off the engagement.”

“And Irene Adler?”

“Threatens to send them the photograph. And she will do it. I know she will. You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel. She has the face of the most beautiful of women and the mind of the most resolute of men. Rather than let me marry another woman, there is nothing she would not do—nothing.”

“You are sure she has not sent it yet?”

“I am sure.”

“And why?”

“Because she has said that she would send it on the day the engagement is publicly announced. That will be next Monday.”

“Oh, then we still have three days,” said Holmes with a yawn. “That is very fortunate, as I have one or two important matters to attend to just now. Your Majesty will, of course, remain in London for the present?”

“Certainly. You will find me at the Langham under the name of Count von Kramm.”

“Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we get on.”

“Please do. I shall be in an agony of suspense.”

“Now, as to money?”

“You have carte blanche.”

“Absolutely?”

“I tell you I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph.”

“And for immediate expenses?”

The King drew a heavy chamois-leather bag from beneath his cloak and laid it on the table.

“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he said.

Holmes scribbled a receipt on a page torn from his notebook and handed it to him.

“And the lady’s address?” he asked.

“Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St John’s Wood.”

Holmes jotted it down. “One more question,” he said. “Was the photograph cabinet size?”

“It was.”

“Then good night, Your Majesty, and I trust we shall soon have good news for you. And good night, Watson,” he added, as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled away down the street. “If you would be so kind as to call tomorrow afternoon at three o’clock, I should like to talk this little matter over with you.”

II.

At precisely three o’clock I was in Baker Street, but Holmes had not yet returned. The landlady told me that he had left the house shortly after eight that morning. I sat down by the fire, determined to wait for him, however long he might be.

I was already deeply interested in his investigation, for although it lacked the grim and bizarre features of the two crimes I have already described, the nature of the case and the exalted rank of his client gave it a character all its own. Indeed, quite apart from the particular problem my friend had in hand, there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation and his sharp, incisive reasoning that made it a pleasure to study his methods and to follow the quick, subtle ways in