“I’m to stay neutral?”

“To do absolutely nothing. There’ll probably be a bit of a disturbance. Don’t get involved. It will end with me being taken into the house. Four or five minutes later, the sitting-room window will be opened. You are to place yourself right by that open window.”

“Yes.”

“You’re to watch me, because you’ll be able to see me.”

“Yes.”

“And when I raise my hand—like this—you will throw into the room what I give you to throw, and at the same moment you will shout ‘Fire!’ You follow me completely?”

“Completely.”

“It’s nothing very dangerous,” he said, taking a long, cigar-shaped roll from his pocket. “It’s just an ordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket, fitted with a cap at each end so it lights itself. That’s all you have to do. When you shout ‘Fire,’ a lot of people will take up the cry. You can then walk to the end of the street, and I’ll join you in ten minutes. Have I made myself clear?”

“I’m to remain neutral, get close to the window, watch you, and at your signal throw this thing in, then shout ‘Fire,’ and wait for you at the corner.”

“Exactly.”

“You can rely on me completely.”

“Excellent. I think it’s about time I got ready for the new role I have to play.”

He disappeared into his bedroom and came back a few minutes later transformed into an amiable, simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. The broad black hat, the baggy trousers, the white tie, the sympathetic smile, and the general air of peering, benevolent curiosity were such that only Mr. John Hare could have matched them. It wasn’t just that Holmes changed his clothes. His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to alter with every new part he took on. The stage lost a fine actor, just as science lost a brilliant reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.

It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it was still ten minutes to seven when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue. It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lit as we walked up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for its occupant to arrive. The house was exactly as I had imagined it from Sherlock Holmes’s brief description, but the area seemed less private than I had expected. On the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighborhood, it was remarkably lively. A group of shabbily dressed men were smoking and laughing on one corner, there was a scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen flirting with a nursemaid, and several well-dressed young men strolling up and down with cigars in their mouths.

“You see,” said Holmes, as we paced in front of the house, “this marriage actually makes things easier. The photograph is now a double-edged weapon. She’s probably just as anxious to keep it from Mr. Godfrey Norton as our client is to keep it from his princess. The question now is: where do we find the photograph?”

“Where indeed?”

“It’s highly unlikely she carries it with her. It’s cabinet size—too large to hide easily in a woman’s clothes. She knows the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. He’s already tried twice. So we can safely assume she doesn’t carry it on her person.”

“Where, then?”

“With her banker or her lawyer. Those are the two obvious possibilities. But I don’t think it’s with either. Women are naturally secretive, and they prefer to do their own hiding. Why would she hand it over to anyone else? She can trust her own guardianship, but she can’t know what indirect or political pressure might be brought to bear on a businessman. Besides, remember she planned to use it within a few days. It has to be somewhere she can reach easily. It must be in her own house.”

“But it’s been burgled twice.”

“Pshaw! They didn’t know how to search.”

“And how will you search?”

“I won’t.”

“What then?”

“I’ll make her show me.”

“But she’ll refuse.”

“She won’t be able to. But I hear wheels. That’s her carriage. Now follow my instructions to the letter.”

As he spoke, the sidelights of a carriage swung into view around the curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau that rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it stopped, one of the loafers on the corner rushed forward to open the door in hopes of earning a coin, but he was shouldered aside by another loafer with the same idea. A fierce quarrel broke out, which was inflamed by the two guardsmen, who took the side of one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder, who was just as hot for the other. A blow was struck, and in an instant the lady, who had just stepped from her carriage, found herself in the center of a little knot of flushed, struggling men, swinging fists and sticks at each other. Holmes plunged into the crowd to protect her; but just as he reached her, he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, blood running freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen bolted in one direction and the loafers in another, while a number of better-dressed people, who had been watching the scuffle without joining in, crowded around to help the lady and attend to the injured man. Irene Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps, but she stopped at the top, her superb figure outlined against the light from the hall, looking back into the street.

“Is the poor gentleman badly hurt?” she asked.

“He’s dead!”