“It’s the Morning Chronicle for April 27, 1890. Just two months ago.”

“Very good. Now, Mr. Wilson?”

“Well, it’s just as I’ve been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead. “I run a small pawnbroker’s shop in Coburg Square, near the City. It’s not much of a business, and in recent years it’s only just kept me going. I used to be able to employ two assistants, but now I can only afford one—and I’d have trouble paying even him if he weren’t willing to work for half wages so he can learn the trade.”

“What is the name of this obliging young man?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

“His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not so very young, either. It’s hard to say how old he is. I couldn’t wish for a sharper assistant, Mr. Holmes, and I know perfectly well he could do better for himself and earn twice what I can pay him. But after all, if he’s satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?”

“Quite. You seem very fortunate to have an employee who works below the going rate. That’s not a common experience for employers these days. I’m not sure your assistant isn’t as remarkable as your advertisement.”

“Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr. Wilson. “There never was such a fellow for photography. Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind, and then darting down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures. That’s his main fault, but on the whole he’s a good worker. There’s no vice in him.”

“He’s still with you, I presume?”

“Yes, sir. Him and a girl of fourteen who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean—that’s all I have in the house, for I’m a widower and never had any family. We live very quietly, sir, the three of us, and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do nothing more.

“The first thing that disturbed our routine was that advertisement. Spaulding came down into the office exactly eight weeks ago today with this very paper in his hand, and he says:

‘“I wish to the Lord, Mr. Wilson, that I was a red-headed man.”’

“‘Why’s that?’ I ask.

“‘Why,’ says he, ‘here’s another vacancy in the League of the Red-headed Men. It’s worth a tidy little fortune to any man who gets it, and I understand there are more vacancies than there are men, so the trustees are at their wits’ end to know what to do with the money. If only my hair would change colour, there’d be a nice little berth all ready for me to step into.’

“‘Well, what is it, then?’ I asked. You see, Mr. Holmes, I’m a real stay-at-home sort of man, and as my business comes to me instead of my having to go to it, I’d often go weeks on end without setting foot over the doormat. Because of that I didn’t know much about what was going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news.

“‘Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?’ he asked, his eyes wide.

“‘Never.’

“‘Well, I’m surprised at that, for you’re eligible yourself for one of the vacancies.’

“‘And what are they worth?’ I asked.

“‘Oh, just a couple of hundred a year, but the work is light, and it needn’t interfere much with your other business.’

“Well, you can imagine that made me prick up my ears, for trade hasn’t been very good for some years, and an extra couple of hundred would have come in very handy.

“‘Tell me all about it,’ I said.

“‘Well,’ said he, showing me the advertisement, ‘you can see for yourself the League has a vacancy, and there’s the address where you should apply for details. As far as I can make out, the League was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very eccentric. He was a redhead himself, and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men; so when he died, it turned out he’d left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees, with instructions to use the interest to provide easy jobs for men whose hair is that colour. From all I hear, the pay is excellent and there’s very little to do.’

“‘But,’ I said, ‘there must be millions of red-headed men who’d apply.’

“‘Not as many as you might think,’ he answered. ‘You see, it’s really limited to Londoners, and to grown men. This American started out from London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn. Then again, I’ve heard there’s no use applying if your hair is light red, or dark red, or anything but a real bright, blazing, fiery red. Now, if you cared to apply, Mr. Wilson, you’d walk straight in; but perhaps it’s hardly worth your while to put yourself out for the sake of a few hundred pounds.’

“Now, it’s a fact, gentlemen, as you can see for yourselves, that my hair is a very full and rich shade, so it seemed to me that if there was any competition in the matter, I stood as good a chance as any man I’d ever met. Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might be useful, so I told him to put up the shutters for the day and come along