“It would be unjust to hesitate,” he said. “You will, however, I’m sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.” With that he grabbed my hair in both hands and yanked until I yelled with pain. 

“There is water in your eyes,” he said, letting go. “I see that everything is as it should be. But we have to be careful, for we’ve been fooled twice by wigs and once by paint. I could tell you stories about cobbler’s wax that would make you sick of human nature.” 

He stepped to the window and shouted at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled. A groan of disappointment rose from below, and the crowd drifted away in all directions until there wasn’t a red head in sight except mine and the manager’s.

“My name,” he said, “is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of the pensioners of the fund left by our noble benefactor. Are you a married man, Mr. Wilson? Do you have a family?”

I answered that I did not.

His face fell at once.

“Dear me,” he said gravely, “that is very serious indeed. I’m sorry to hear it. The fund was, of course, for the propagation and spread of red hair as well as for its maintenance. It is extremely unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.”

My face grew longer at this, Mr. Holmes, for I thought I was not going to get the position after all; but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right.

“In another case,” he said, “the objection might be fatal, but we must stretch a point in favor of a man with such a head of hair as yours. When will you be able to start your new duties?”

“Well, it’s a little awkward, for I already have a business,” I said.

“Oh, never mind about that, Mr. Wilson!” said Vincent Spaulding. “I can look after that for you.”

“What would the hours be?” I asked.

“Ten to two.”

Now, a pawnbroker’s business is mostly done in the evening, Mr. Holmes, especially Thursday and Friday evenings, just before payday; so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings. Besides, I knew my assistant was a good man and that he would see to anything that turned up.

“That would suit me very well,” I said. “And the pay?”

“It’s four pounds a week.”

“And the work?”

“Is purely nominal.”

“What do you call purely nominal?”

“Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the whole time. If you leave, you forfeit your position forever. The will is very clear on that point. You don’t meet the conditions if you stir from the office during those hours.”

“It’s only four hours a day, and I shouldn’t dream of leaving,” I said.

“No excuse will be accepted,” said Mr. Duncan Ross. “Neither sickness nor business nor anything else. You must stay there, or you lose your job.”

“And the work?”

“Is to copy out the Encyclopaedia Britannica. There is the first volume in that cupboard. You must provide your own ink, pens, and blotting paper, but we provide this table and chair. Will you be ready tomorrow?”

“Certainly,” I answered.

“Then good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you once more on the important position you have been fortunate enough to obtain.” He bowed me out of the room, and I went home with my assistant, hardly knowing what to say or do, I was so delighted with my good luck.

Well, I thought it over all day, and by evening I was down in the dumps again; for I had quite convinced myself that the whole thing must be some great hoax or swindle, though what its object could be I could not imagine. It seemed utterly unbelievable that anyone would make such a will, or that they would pay such a sum for doing something so simple as copying out the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole affair. However, in the morning I decided to go and see for myself, so I bought a penny bottle of ink, and with a quill pen and seven sheets of foolscap paper I set off for Pope’s Court.

To my surprise and delight, everything was exactly as it should be. The table was laid out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to see that I got properly to work. He started me on the letter A and then left me; but he would drop in from time to time to see that everything was all right. At two o’clock he wished me good day, complimented me on how much I had written, and locked the office door behind me.

This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday the manager came in and slapped down four golden sovereigns for my week’s work. It was the same the next week, and the same the week after. Every morning I was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two. Gradually, Mr. Duncan Ross took to coming in only once each morning, and then, after a while, he stopped coming in at all. Still, of course, I never dared leave the room for an instant, for I never knew when he might come, and the job was so good, and suited me so well, that I wouldn’t risk losing it.

Eight weeks went by like this, and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and hoped, if I kept at it, to get on to the B’s