“‘Where could I find him?’

“‘Oh, at his new offices. He gave me the address. Yes—17 King Edward Street, near St. Paul’s.’

“I set off at once, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to that address it turned out to be a factory for artificial kneecaps, and no one there had ever heard of either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross.”

“And what did you do then?” asked Holmes.

“I went back home to Saxe-Coburg Square and took my assistant’s advice. But he couldn’t help me at all. He only said that if I waited I’d hear by post. That wasn’t quite good enough for me, Mr. Holmes. I didn’t want to lose such a position without a fight, so, having heard that you were kind enough to advise poor folk in trouble, I came straight to you.”

“And you were very wise to do so,” said Holmes. “Your case is an exceptionally remarkable one, and I’ll be glad to look into it. From what you’ve told me, I think it’s quite possible that more serious issues are attached to it than might appear at first glance.”

“Serious enough!” said Mr. Jabez Wilson. “Why, I’ve lost four pounds a week.”

“As far as you personally are concerned,” Holmes remarked, “I don’t see that you have any real grievance against this extraordinary league. On the contrary, as I understand it, you’re richer by some thirty pounds, not to mention the detailed knowledge you’ve gained of every subject beginning with the letter A. You’ve lost nothing by them.”

“No, sir. But I want to find out about them—who they are, and what their purpose was in playing this trick—if it was a trick—on me. It was a pretty expensive joke for them, since it cost them thirty-two pounds.”

“We’ll try to clear up those points for you. First, one or two questions, Mr. Wilson. This assistant of yours who first drew your attention to the advertisement—how long had he been with you at that time?”

“About a month.”

“How did he come to you?”

“In answer to an advertisement.”

“Was he the only applicant?”

“No, I had a dozen.”

“Why did you choose him?”

“Because he was handy and would work cheap.”

“At half wages, in fact?”

“Yes.”

“What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?”

“Short, solidly built, very quick in his movements, no hair on his face, though he’s not under thirty. He’s got a white splash of acid on his forehead.”

Holmes sat up in his chair, visibly excited. “I thought as much,” he said. “Have you ever noticed that his ears are pierced for earrings?”

“Yes, sir. He told me a gypsy did it for him when he was a lad.”

“Hmm!” said Holmes, sinking back into deep thought. “He’s still with you?”

“Oh yes, sir. I’ve only just left him.”

“And has your business been properly looked after in your absence?”

“Nothing to complain of, sir. There’s never very much to do in the mornings.”

“That will do, Mr. Wilson. I’ll be happy to give you an opinion on the matter in the course of a day or two. Today is Saturday, and I hope that by Monday we may reach a conclusion.”

“Well, Watson,” said Holmes, when our visitor had left us, “what do you make of it all?”

“I can make nothing of it,” I answered honestly. “It’s the most mysterious business.”

“As a rule,” said Holmes, “the more bizarre a thing is, the less mysterious it turns out to be. It’s your ordinary, featureless crimes that are really puzzling—just as a commonplace face is the hardest to identify. But I must act quickly in this matter.”

“What are you going to do, then?” I asked.

“Smoke,” he replied. “This is a three-pipe problem, and I must ask you not to speak to me for fifty minutes.” He curled himself up in his chair, his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose, and there he sat with his eyes closed, his black clay pipe jutting out like the beak of some strange bird. I had decided that he had fallen asleep, and was nodding myself, when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the movement of a man who has made up his mind, and put his pipe down on the mantelpiece.

“Sarasate is playing at St. James’s Hall this afternoon,” he remarked. “What do you say, Watson? Could your patients spare you for a few hours?”

“I’ve nothing to do today. My practice is never very demanding.”

“Then put on your hat and come along. I’m going through the City first, and we can get some lunch on the way. I see there’s a good deal of German music on the programme, which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French. It’s introspective, and I want to introspect. Come!”

We took the Underground as far as Aldersgate, and a short walk brought us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of the strange story we had heard that morning. It was a cramped little, shabby-genteel place, where four rows of dingy two-storey brick houses looked onto a small railed-in enclosure, in which a patchy lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel bushes fought a losing battle against the smoke-laden, hostile air. Three gilt balls and a brown signboard with “JABEZ WILSON” in white letters on a corner house marked the premises where our red-headed client carried on his business. Sherlock Holmes stopped in