“I’ve had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr. John Clay,” said Holmes. “I’ve been put to some small expense over this affair, which I shall expect the bank to refund. But beyond that, I’m more than repaid by having had an experience that is in many ways unique, and by hearing the very remarkable story of the Red-headed League.”

“You see, Watson,” he went on, in the small hours of the morning, as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street, “it was perfectly clear from the start that the only possible purpose of this rather fantastic business—the League advertisement and the copying of the encyclopedia—had to be to get this not overly bright pawnbroker out of the way for several hours every day. It was an odd way of going about it, but honestly, it would be hard to suggest a better. The idea was no doubt suggested to Clay’s ingenious mind by the color of his accomplice’s hair. The four pounds a week was a bait that was bound to hook him—and what was that to them, when they were playing for thousands? They put in the advertisement, one crook rents a temporary office, the other crook urges the man to apply for the job, and together they arrange it so he’s absent every morning of the week. From the moment I heard that the assistant had taken the job at half wages, it was obvious to me that he had some powerful motive for getting that position.”

“But how could you guess what the motive was?”

“If there had been women in the house, I’d have suspected a cheap little love affair. That, however, was out of the question. The man’s business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house that could justify such elaborate preparations and such an outlay as they were making. It had to be something outside the house. What could it be? I thought of the assistant’s fondness for photography, and his habit of disappearing into the cellar. The cellar! That was the end of this tangled thread. Then I made inquiries about this mysterious assistant and discovered that I was dealing with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in London. He was doing something in the cellar—something that took many hours a day, for months on end. What could that be, again? I could think of nothing except that he was driving a tunnel to some other building.

“That’s how far I’d got when we went to visit the scene. I surprised you by beating on the pavement with my stick. I was finding out whether the cellar ran out under the street in front or extended behind. It wasn’t in front. Then I rang the bell and, as I’d hoped, the assistant answered it. We’ve had a few skirmishes, but we’d never actually seen each other before. I hardly glanced at his face. It was his knees I wanted to see. You must have noticed how worn, wrinkled, and stained they were. They told of those hours of burrowing. The only question left was what they were burrowing for. I walked round the corner, saw that the City and Suburban Bank backed directly onto our friend’s premises, and knew I had my solution. When you drove home after the concert, I called on Scotland Yard and on the chairman of the bank directors, with the result you’ve just witnessed.”

“And how could you tell they would make their attempt tonight?” I asked.

“Well, when they shut down their League offices, that was a sign they no longer cared about Mr. Jabez Wilson’s presence—in other words, that they had finished their tunnel. But it was essential that they use it soon, since it might be discovered, or the bullion might be moved. Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it would give them two days for their escape. For all these reasons, I expected them to come tonight.”

“You worked it out beautifully,” I burst out, with genuine admiration. “It’s such a long chain, and yet every link rings true.”

“It saved me from boredom,” he replied, yawning. “Alas, I can already feel it closing in on me again. My life is one long effort to escape from the dull routine of existence. These little problems help me to do that.”

“And you’re a benefactor of the human race,” I said.

He shrugged. “Well, perhaps, after all, it is of some small use,” he remarked. “‘L’homme, c’est rien—l’œuvre, c’est tout,’ as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand. Man is nothing—the work is everything.”