“It missed him, then?”

“Yes, sir. He had already left for England just before it arrived.”

“Ah—that was unfortunate. Your wedding was set for Friday, then. Was it to be in a church?”

“Yes, sir, but very quietly. It was to be at St. Saviour’s, near King’s Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St. Pancras Hotel. Hosmer came for us in a hansom, but as there were two of us he put us both into it and himself got into a four-wheeler, which happened to be the only other cab in the street. We reached the church first, and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to get out—but he never did, and when the cabman climbed down from the box and looked inside there was no one there! The cabman said he couldn’t imagine what had become of him, for he had seen him get in with his own eyes. That was last Friday, Mr. Holmes, and I have never seen or heard anything since that throws any light on what became of him.”

“It seems to me you’ve been very shamefully treated,” said Holmes.

“Oh no, sir! He was far too good and kind to leave me like that. All that morning he kept saying to me that, whatever happened, I was to be faithful; that even if something completely unforeseen occurred to separate us, I was always to remember that I was pledged to him, and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later. It seemed strange talk for a wedding morning, but what has happened since gives it a meaning.”

“It most certainly does. Your own opinion is, then, that some unforeseen disaster has overtaken him?”

“Yes, sir. I believe he foresaw some danger, or he would not have talked that way. And then I think that what he foresaw actually happened.”

“But you have no idea what it might have been?”

“None.”

“One more question. How did your mother take it?”

“She was angry, and said I was never to speak of the matter again.”

“And your father? Did you tell him?”

“Yes. And he seemed to think, as I do, that something had happened, and that I would hear from Hosmer again. As he said, what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the church door and then abandoning me? Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and had my money settled on him, there might be some reason; but Hosmer was very independent about money and would never touch a shilling of mine. And yet, what could have happened? And why couldn’t he write? Oh, it drives me half mad to think of it, and I can’t sleep a wink at night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it.

“I’ll look into the case for you,” said Holmes, rising, “and I’ve no doubt we shall reach some definite conclusion. Let the burden of the matter rest on me now, and don’t let your mind dwell on it any further. Above all, try to let Mr. Hosmer Angel fade from your memory, as he has faded from your life.”

“Then you don’t think I’ll see him again?”

“I’m afraid not.”

“Then what has happened to him?”

“You will leave that question in my hands. I should like an exact description of him, and any letters of his you can spare.”

“I advertised for him in last Saturday’s Chronicle,” she said. “Here is the clipping, and here are four letters from him.”

“Thank you. And your address?”

“No. 31 Lyon Place, Camberwell.”

“You never had Mr. Angel’s address, I understand. Where is your father’s place of business?”

“He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the big claret importers in Fenchurch Street.”

“Thank you. You’ve given your statement very clearly. You will leave the papers here, and remember the advice I’ve given you. Let the whole incident be a closed book, and don’t allow it to affect your life.”

“You are very kind, Mr. Holmes, but I can’t do that. I shall be true to Hosmer. He will find me ready when he comes back.”

For all the ridiculous hat and the vacant face, there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor that compelled our respect. She laid her small bundle of papers on the table and went her way, promising to come again whenever she might be sent for.

Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him, and his eyes fixed on the ceiling. Then he took down from the rack the old, greasy clay pipe that served him as a counsellor, and, having lit it, he leaned back in his chair, thick blue coils of smoke spinning up from him, and an expression of infinite languor on his face.

“Quite an interesting study, that young woman,” he remarked. “I found her more interesting than her little problem, which, by the way, is rather a commonplace one. You’ll find parallel cases, if you consult my index, in Andover in ’77, and there was something similar at The Hague last year. Old as the idea is, however, there were one or two details that were new to me. But the young woman herself was most instructive.”

“You seemed to read a great deal about her that was completely invisible to me,” I said.

“Not invisible, Watson—only unnoticed. You didn’t know where to look, and so you missed everything that mattered. I can never get you to realize the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumbnails, or the great issues that may hang from a