4. THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY

My wife and I were at breakfast one morning when the maid brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes, and read:

“Have you a couple of days to spare? Have just been wired from the west of England about the Boscombe Valley tragedy. Would be glad if you came with me. Air and scenery perfect. Leave Paddington by the 11:15.”

“What do you think, dear?” my wife asked, looking across at me. “Will you go?”

“I really don’t know. I’ve quite a long list of patients just now.”

“Oh, Anstruther can cover for you. You’ve been looking a little pale lately. I think the change would do you good, and you’re always so interested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes’s cases.”

“I’d be ungrateful if I weren’t, considering what I owe to one of them,” I replied. “But if I’m going, I must pack at once, because I’ve only half an hour.”

My time in the Afghan campaign had at least taught me to travel quickly and with little fuss. My needs were few and simple, so in less than the time allowed I was in a cab with my valise, rattling off to Paddington Station. Sherlock Holmes was pacing up and down the platform, his tall, lean figure made even taller and gaunter by his long grey travelling cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.

“It’s really very good of you to come, Watson,” he said. “It makes a great difference to me to have someone with me I can completely rely on. Local help is always either useless or biased. If you’ll secure the two corner seats, I’ll get the tickets.”

We had the compartment to ourselves, apart from an enormous litter of papers Holmes had brought. He rummaged among them as we started, reading, pausing now and then to jot down a note or sit in silent thought, until we were past Reading. Then he suddenly rolled the whole heap into a gigantic ball and tossed it up onto the rack.

“Have you heard anything about the case?” he asked.

“Not a word. I haven’t seen a newspaper for several days.”

“The London press hasn’t given very full accounts. I’ve just been going through all the recent papers to get the details straight. From what I can gather, it seems to be one of those simple cases that are extremely difficult.”

“That sounds a bit like a contradiction.”

“But it’s profoundly true. Anything out of the ordinary is almost always a clue. The more featureless and ordinary a crime is, the harder it is to bring it home to anyone. In this case, however, they’ve built up a very serious case against the murdered man’s son.”

“So it is a murder, then?”

“Well, it’s assumed to be. I’ll take nothing for granted until I’ve had the chance to look into it myself. I’ll explain the situation to you, as far as I’ve been able to understand it, in a few words.

“Boscombe Valley is a rural district not far from Ross, in Herefordshire. The largest landowner there is a Mr. John Turner, who made his money in Australia and came back to England some years ago. One of his farms, Hatherley, was rented by Mr. Charles McCarthy, who was also an ex-Australian. The two men had known each other in the colonies, so it was natural that when they settled down they should do so as near each other as possible. Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his tenant, but they still seem to have remained on perfectly equal terms, as they were often seen together. McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither man had a wife living. They seem to have avoided the society of the neighbouring English families and to have led rather secluded lives, though both McCarthys were fond of sport and were often seen at the local race meetings. McCarthy kept two servants—a man and a girl. Turner had quite a large household, half a dozen at least. That’s as much as I’ve been able to learn about the families. Now for the facts.

“On June 3rd—Monday last—McCarthy left his house at Hatherley at about three in the afternoon and walked down to Boscombe Pool, a small lake formed where the stream running through Boscombe Valley spreads out. He had been out that morning with his manservant in Ross, and he told the man he must hurry back because he had an important appointment at three. He never came back alive from that appointment.

“It’s a quarter of a mile from Hatherley Farmhouse to Boscombe Pool, and two people saw him as he crossed that ground. One was an old woman, whose name is not given, and the other was William Crowder, a gamekeeper employed by Mr. Turner. Both witnesses state that Mr. McCarthy was walking alone. The gamekeeper adds that within a few minutes of seeing Mr. McCarthy pass, he saw his son, Mr. James McCarthy, going the same way with a gun under his arm. To the best of his belief, the father was still in sight at the time, and the son was following him. He thought nothing more of it until he heard that evening of the tragedy that had occurred.

“The two McCarthys were seen again after the time when William Crowder, the gamekeeper, lost sight of them. Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded all around, with just a fringe of grass and reeds at the edge. A fourteen-year-old girl, Patience Moran, the lodge-keeper’s daughter on the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking flowers.