“I’m afraid,” I said, “that the facts are so obvious you’ll get very little credit out of this case.”

“There’s nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact,” he replied, laughing. “Besides, we may stumble on some other ‘obvious’ facts which may not have been obvious at all to Lestrade. You know me too well to think I’m boasting when I say that I will either confirm or demolish his theory by methods he is utterly incapable of using—or even understanding. To take the first example that comes to hand: I can see quite clearly that in your bedroom the window is on the right-hand side, and yet I doubt whether Lestrade would have noticed even something as self-evident as that.”

“How on earth—”

“My dear fellow, I know you. I know the military neatness that defines you. You shave every morning, and at this time of year you shave by daylight; but your shaving grows less and less complete as we move farther back on the left side, until it becomes downright sloppy as it goes round the angle of the jaw. It’s perfectly clear that that side is less well lit than the other. I can’t imagine a man of your habits looking at himself in equal light and being satisfied with such a result. I mention this only as a trivial example of observation and inference. That is my métier, and it may just prove useful in the investigation ahead of us. There are one or two minor points brought out at the inquest that are worth considering.”

“What are they?”

“It seems his arrest did not take place at once, but only after they had returned to Hatherley Farm. When the police inspector told him he was under arrest, he said he was not surprised to hear it, and that it was no more than he deserved. That remark naturally swept away any lingering doubts in the minds of the coroner’s jury.”

“It was a confession,” I burst out.

“No, because he followed it with a protestation of innocence.”

“Coming on top of such a damning chain of events, it was at the very least a highly suspicious remark.”

“On the contrary,” said Holmes, “it’s the brightest break in the clouds I can see at the moment. However innocent he might be, he couldn’t be such a complete idiot as not to see that the circumstances looked very black against him. If he had seemed surprised at his arrest, or had pretended to be indignant about it, I should have found that highly suspicious, because such surprise or anger would not be natural in the circumstances, and yet might seem the best policy to a calculating man. His straightforward acceptance of the situation marks him either as an innocent man, or as a man of remarkable self-control and strength of character. As for his remark about getting what he deserved, that too is not unnatural if you consider that he was standing beside his father’s dead body, and that there is no doubt he had that very day so far forgotten his duty as a son as to bandy words with him and even—according to the little girl whose testimony is so important—to raise his hand as if to strike him. The self-reproach and remorse shown in his remark seem to me signs of a healthy mind rather than a guilty one.”

I shook my head. “Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence,” I said.

“So they have. And many men have been wrongly hanged.”

“What is the young man’s own account of the matter?”

“I’m afraid it’s not very encouraging for those who support him, though there are one or two suggestive points in it. You’ll find it here; you can read it yourself.”

He took from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper, folded it down, and pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had happened. I settled myself into the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully. It ran as follows:

“Mr. James McCarthy, only son of the deceased, was then called and gave evidence as follows: ‘I had been away from home for three days at Bristol, and had only just returned on the morning of last Monday, the 3rd. My father was not at home when I arrived, and the maid told me that he had driven over to Ross with John Cobb, the groom. Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk quickly out of the yard, though I did not know in which direction he was going. I then took my gun and strolled in the direction of Boscombe Pool, intending to visit the rabbit warren on the other side. On my way I saw William Crowder, the gamekeeper, as he stated in his evidence; but he is mistaken in thinking that I was following my father. I had no idea he was in front of me. When I was about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of “Cooee!” which was a usual signal between my father and myself. I then hurried forward and found him standing by the pool. He seemed very surprised to see me and asked rather roughly what I was doing there. A conversation followed which led to angry words and almost to blows, for my father was a man of very violent temper. Seeing that his rage was becoming uncontrollable, I left him and started back towards Hatherley Farm. I had not gone more than a hundred and fifty yards, however, when I heard a horrible cry behind me, which made me run back. I found my father dying on the ground, his head terribly injured. I dropped my gun and took him in my arms, but he died almost at once. I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then went to Mr. Turner’s