“I’m a dying man,” said old Turner. “I’ve had diabetes for years. My doctor says it’s doubtful I’ll live out the month. Still, I’d rather die under my own roof than in a prison.”

Holmes stood, moved to the table, and sat down with his pen in hand and a bundle of paper before him. “Just tell us the truth,” he said. “I’ll write down the facts. You’ll sign it, and Watson here will witness it. Then I can produce your confession, at the last possible moment, to save young McCarthy. I give you my word I won’t use it unless it’s absolutely necessary.”

“It’s just as well,” said the old man. “It’s doubtful I’ll live to the Assizes, so it makes little difference to me, but I’d like to spare Alice the shock. And now I’ll make it clear to you; it’s been a long time in the doing, but it won’t take me long to tell.

“You didn’t know this dead man, McCarthy. He was the devil incarnate. I tell you that. God keep you out of the clutches of such a man. His grip has been on me for twenty years, and he has blasted my life. I’ll tell you first how I came into his power.

“It was in the early ’60s, at the goldfields. I was a young fellow then—hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand to anything. I fell in with bad company, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, went into the bush, and, in short, became what you’d call here a highway robber. There were six of us, and we lived a wild, free life, holding up a station now and then or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings. I went by the name of Black Jack of Ballarat, and our gang is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.

“One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne, and we lay in wait and attacked it. There were six troopers and six of us, so it was a close-run thing, but we emptied four of their saddles with the first volley. Three of our boys were killed, though, before we got the swag. I put my pistol to the head of the wagon driver—this very man McCarthy. I wish to God I’d shot him then, but I spared him, even though I saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face, as if he meant to remember every feature. We got away with the gold, became rich men, and slipped over to England without a hint of suspicion. There I parted from my old mates and decided to settle down to a quiet, respectable life. I bought this estate, which happened to be on the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money, to make up for the way I’d earned it. I married, too, and though my wife died young, she left me my dear little Alice. Even as a baby, her tiny hand seemed to lead me along the right path as nothing else ever had. In short, I turned over a new leaf and did my best to atone for the past. Everything was going well when McCarthy laid his hand on me.

“I’d gone up to town about an investment, and I met him in Regent Street, with hardly a coat on his back or a boot to his foot.

“‘Here we are, Jack,’ says he, touching my arm. ‘We’ll be like family to you. There’s two of us—me and my son—and you can keep us. If you don’t—well, England’s a fine, law-abiding country, and there’s always a policeman within call.’

“Well, down they came to the west country. There was no shaking them off, and they’ve lived there ever since, rent-free, on my best land. There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetting. Wherever I turned, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow. It grew worse as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her learning my past than I was of the police. Whatever he wanted, he must have, and whatever it was, I gave it without a word—land, money, houses—until at last he asked for something I could not give. He asked for Alice.

“His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and since I was known to be in poor health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property. But there I stood firm. I would not have his cursed blood mixed with mine. Not that I had anything against the boy himself, but his father’s blood was in him, and that was enough. I stood firm. McCarthy threatened. I dared him to do his worst. We agreed to meet at the pool halfway between our houses to talk it over.

“When I went down there, I found him talking with his son, so I lit a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone. But as I listened to what he was saying, everything black and bitter in me rose to the surface. He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for her wishes as if she were some slut off the streets. It drove me mad to think that I, and all I held most dear, should be in the power of such a man. Could I not break the chain? I was already a dying and desperate man. Though my mind was clear and my limbs still fairly strong, I knew my fate was sealed. But my memory—and my girl! Both could be saved if only I could silence that foul tongue.