5. THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS

When I look back over my notes and records of Sherlock Holmes’s cases between the years ’82 and ’90, I find so many with strange and fascinating features that it is no easy task to decide which to choose and which to leave aside. Some have already been made public in the newspapers; others did not provide a stage for those peculiar gifts my friend possessed in such a high degree, and which it is the purpose of these memoirs to illustrate. Some, too, defeated even his analytical skill and would, as stories, be mere beginnings without an ending; others were only partly cleared up, their explanations resting more on conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which he prized so highly. There is, however, one of this last class which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its outcome that I am tempted to give some account of it, despite the fact that there are points connected with it which never have been, and probably never will be, entirely cleared up.

The year ’87 provided us with a long series of cases, of greater or lesser interest, of which I still have the records. Under that single year I find headings for the adventure of the Paradol Chamber; for the Amateur Mendicant Society, who maintained a luxurious club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse; for the facts surrounding the loss of the British barque Sophy Anderson; for the strange adventures of the Grice Patersons on the island of Uffa; and finally for the Camberwell poisoning case. In the last of these, as may be remembered, Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man’s watch, to prove that it had been wound only two hours before, and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time—a deduction of the greatest importance in solving the case. All these I may sketch out at some later date, but none of them shows such singular features as the strange chain of events I have now taken up my pen to describe.

It was in the last days of September, and the equinoctial gales had set in with unusual violence. All day the wind had screamed and the rain had lashed against the windows, so that even here in the heart of vast, man-made London we were forced, if only for a moment, to lift our minds from the routine of life and acknowledge the presence of those great elemental forces which howl at mankind through the bars of his civilisation like wild beasts in a cage. As evening drew in, the storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily on one side of the fireplace, cross-indexing his records of crime, while I, on the other side, was deep in one of Clark Russell’s fine sea-stories, until the howl of the gale outside seemed to merge with the printed page and the patter of the rain lengthened out into the long wash of the sea waves. My wife was visiting her mother, and for a few days I was once more living in my old quarters in Baker Street.

“Why,” I said, looking up at my companion, “that was surely the bell. Who could be calling tonight? Some friend of yours, perhaps?”

“Except for yourself, I have none,” he replied. “I do not encourage visitors.”

“A client, then?”

“If so, it is a serious case. Nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour. But I imagine it is more likely to be some crony of the landlady’s.”

Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his guess, however, for there came a step in the passage and a knock at the door. He stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and toward the empty chair on which any newcomer must sit.

“Come in!” he said.

The man who entered was young—twenty-two at the most—well groomed and neatly dressed, with something refined and delicate in his manner. The streaming umbrella in his hand and his long, shining waterproof coat told of the fierce weather through which he had come. He looked around anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a man weighed down by some great anxiety.

“I must apologize,” he said, raising his gold pince-nez to his eyes. “I hope I am not intruding. I fear I have brought some traces of the storm and rain into your cozy room.”

“Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes. “Hang them here on the hook; they’ll be dry soon enough. You’ve come up from the south-west, I see.”

“Yes, from Horsham.”

“That clay-and-chalk mixture on your toe-caps is quite distinctive.”

“I have come for advice.”

“That is easily obtained.”

“And for help.”

“That is not always so easy.”

“I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes. I heard from Major Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.”

“Ah, yes. He was wrongly accused of cheating at cards.”

“He said you could solve anything.”

“He said too much.”

“That you are never beaten.”

“I have been beaten four times—three times by men, and once by a woman.”

“But what is that compared with the number of your successes?”

“It is true that I have generally been successful.”

“Then you may be successful with me.”

“I beg you, pull your chair up to the fire and give me the main facts of your case. I can question you afterwards about the details that seem most important to me.”

The young man drew his chair closer and stretched his wet feet out toward the blaze.

“My name,” he said, “is John Openshaw, but my own affairs, as far