He didn’t object to me; in fact, he took a liking to me, because when he first saw me I was a boy of about twelve. That would have been in 1878, after he’d been eight or nine years in England. He begged my father to let me live with him, and in his own way he was very kind to me. When he was sober he liked to play backgammon and checkers with me, and he made me his go-between with the servants and the tradesmen, so that by the time I was sixteen I was practically master of the house. I kept all the keys and could go where I pleased and do what I pleased, as long as I didn’t disturb him in his privacy. There was one strange exception, though: he had a single room, a lumber-room up in the attics, which was always locked and which he would never allow me or anyone else to enter. With a boy’s curiosity I had peeped through the keyhole, but I never saw more than the usual jumble of old trunks and bundles you’d expect in such a place.

One day—it was in March 1883—a letter with a foreign stamp was lying on the table in front of the colonel’s plate. It was unusual for him to get letters, for he paid all his bills in cash and had no friends of any kind. “From India!” he said as he picked it up. “Pondicherry postmark! What can this be?” He tore it open hastily, and out jumped five little dried orange pips, which rattled down onto his plate. I started to laugh at this, but the laugh died on my lips when I saw his face. His lower lip had sagged, his eyes were bulging, his skin had gone the color of putty, and he stared at the envelope he still held in his shaking hand. “K. K. K.!” he screamed, and then, “My God, my God, my sins have found me out!”

“What is it, Uncle?” I cried.

“Death,” he said, and getting up from the table he went to his room, leaving me trembling with horror. I picked up the envelope and saw, scrawled in red ink on the inside flap just above the gum, the letter K written three times. There was nothing else, apart from the five dried pips. What could explain his overwhelming terror? I left the breakfast table, and as I went up the stairs I met him coming down, with an old rusty key in one hand—which must have belonged to the attic—and a small brass box, like a cash box, in the other.

“They can do what they like, but I’ll checkmate them yet,” he said with an oath. “Tell Mary I’ll want a fire in my room today, and send down to Fordham, the lawyer in Horsham.”

I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was told to come up to the room. The fire was blazing, and in the grate there was a heap of black, fluffy ashes, like burned paper, while the brass box stood open and empty beside it. As I glanced at the box I started, for on the lid was printed the triple K I had seen that morning on the envelope.

“I want you, John,” said my uncle, “to witness my will. I leave my estate, with all its advantages and all its drawbacks, to my brother, your father, from whom it will no doubt pass on to you. If you can enjoy it in peace, so much the better. If you find you can’t, then take my advice, my boy, and leave it to your worst enemy. I’m sorry to hand you such a two-edged thing, but I can’t tell which way matters are going to turn. Kindly sign where Mr. Fordham shows you.”

I signed where I was told, and the lawyer took the document away with him. The strange incident, as you can imagine, made a deep impression on me, and I turned it over and over in my mind without being able to make any sense of it. I still couldn’t shake off the vague dread it left behind, though the feeling dulled as the weeks went by and nothing happened to disturb our usual routine. I could see a change in my uncle, though. He drank more than ever and was less inclined for any kind of company. Most of the time he stayed in his room with the door locked on the inside, but sometimes he would burst out in a kind of drunken frenzy, rush out of the house, and tear around the garden with a revolver in his hand, shouting that he feared no man and that he would not be cooped up like a sheep in a pen by man or devil. But when these hot fits were over, he would come storming back into the house and lock and bar the door behind him, like a man who can no longer brazen it out against the terror at the bottom of his soul. At such times I have seen his face, even on a cold day, shining with sweat, as though he had just lifted it from a basin of water.

To bring the matter to an end, Mr. Holmes, and not to strain your patience, there came a night when he made one of those drunken sallies—and never came back. When we went to look for him we found him lying face down in a little pool with a green scum on it at the bottom of the garden. There was no sign of violence, and the water was only two feet deep, so the jury, taking his known eccentricity into account, returned a verdict of suicide. But I, who knew how he shuddered at the very thought of death, found it hard to believe he had gone