“‘What on earth does this mean, John?’ he stammered.

My heart sank like lead. ‘It’s K. K. K.,’ I said.

He looked inside the envelope. ‘So it is,’ he cried. ‘Here are the very letters. But what’s this written above them?’

‘“Put the papers on the sundial,”’ I read, peering over his shoulder.

‘What papers? What sundial?’ he asked.

‘The sundial in the garden. There’s no other,’ I said. ‘But the papers must be the ones that were destroyed.’

‘Nonsense!’ he said, mustering his courage. ‘We’re in a civilized country here, and we can’t have this kind of tomfoolery. Where did it come from?’

‘From Dundee,’ I answered, glancing at the postmark.

‘Some ridiculous practical joke,’ he said. ‘What have I to do with sundials and papers? I’ll pay no attention to such rubbish.’

‘I’d certainly speak to the police,’ I said.

‘And be laughed at for my trouble? Certainly not.’

‘Then let me do it.’

‘No, I forbid you. I won’t have a fuss made over such nonsense.’

It was useless to argue with him; he was a very stubborn man. Still, I went about with a heart full of foreboding.

On the third day after the letter arrived, my father left home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who commands one of the forts on Portsdown Hill. I was glad he was going, for it seemed to me he was safer away from home. In that, however, I was mistaken. On the second day of his absence I received a telegram from the major, begging me to come at once. My father had fallen into one of the deep chalk-pits that abound in the area and was lying unconscious, his skull shattered. I hurried to him, but he died without ever regaining consciousness. It appears that he had been returning from Fareham at dusk, and as the country was unfamiliar to him and the chalk-pit unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in returning a verdict of ‘death by misadventure.’ Careful as I was in examining every detail connected with his death, I could find nothing to suggest murder. There were no signs of violence, no footprints, no robbery, no report of strangers seen on the roads. And yet you can imagine that my mind was far from at ease, and that I was almost certain some foul plot had been woven around him.

In this sinister way I came into my inheritance. You will ask why I did not sell it. I answer that I was firmly convinced our troubles were somehow bound up with an incident in my uncle’s life, and that the danger would be just as great in any other house as in this one.

It was in January ’85 that my poor father met his end, and two years and eight months have passed since then. During that time I have lived peacefully at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse had lifted from the family and ended with the last generation. I took comfort too soon, however; yesterday morning the blow fell again, in exactly the same form in which it had fallen on my father.

The young man took a crumpled envelope from his waistcoat and, turning to the table, shook out onto it five small dried orange pips.

‘This is the envelope,’ he went on. ‘The postmark is London—eastern division. Inside are the exact words that were on my father’s last message: “K. K. K.” and then “Put the papers on the sundial.”’

‘What have you done?’ asked Holmes.

‘Nothing.’

‘Nothing?’

‘To tell the truth’—he buried his face in his thin, pale hands—‘I’ve felt helpless. I’ve felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it. I seem to be in the grip of some irresistible, relentless evil that no foresight and no precautions can guard against.’

‘Tut, tut!’ cried Sherlock Holmes. ‘You must act, man, or you are lost. Only energy can save you. This is no time for despair.’

‘I’ve seen the police.’

‘Ah!’

‘But they listened to my story with a smile. I’m convinced the inspector thinks all the letters are practical jokes, and that my relatives’ deaths were really accidents, just as the jury decided, and have nothing to do with the warnings.’

Holmes shook his clenched fists in the air. ‘Incredible stupidity!’ he cried.

‘They have, however, allowed me a policeman who may stay in the house with me.’

‘Has he come with you tonight?’

‘No. His orders were to remain at the house.’

Again Holmes flung his hands up in the air.

‘Why did you come to me?’ he said. ‘And above all, why did you not come at once?’

‘I didn’t know. It was only today that I spoke to Major Prendergast about my troubles, and he advised me to come to you.’

‘It’s already two days since you received the letter. We should have acted before this. You have no further evidence, I suppose, beyond what you’ve shown us—no suggestive detail that might help?’

‘There is one thing,’ said John Openshaw. He rummaged in his coat pocket and drew out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, which he spread on the table. ‘I remember,’ he said, ‘that on the day my uncle burned the papers, I noticed that the small, unburned scraps lying among the ashes were this particular colour. I found this single sheet on the floor of his room, and