“I never have.”

Holmes turned the pages of the book on his knee. “Here it is,” he said at last:

“‘Ku Klux Klan. A name taken from the fanciful resemblance to the sound made by cocking a rifle. This terrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War, and it quickly established local branches in different parts of the country, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida. Its power was used for political purposes, chiefly to terrorize Black voters and to murder or drive out of the country those who opposed its views. Its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some bizarre but generally recognized form—a sprig of oak leaves in some districts, melon seeds or orange pips in others. On receiving this, the victim might either publicly renounce his former ways or flee the country. If he stood his ground, death would inevitably come upon him, usually in some strange and unforeseen manner. So perfect was the organization of the society, and so systematic its methods, that there is hardly a case on record where any man succeeded in defying it with impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced back to the perpetrators. For some years the organization flourished in spite of the efforts of the United States government and of the better elements of Southern society. Eventually, in the year 1869, the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.’”

“You’ll notice,” said Holmes, laying down the volume, “that the sudden breakup of the society coincides with Openshaw’s disappearance from America with their papers. It may well be cause and effect. It’s no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits on their trail. You can understand that this register and diary may implicate some of the foremost men in the South, and that there may be many who will not sleep easily until it is recovered.”

“Then the page we’ve seen—”

“Is exactly what we’d expect. It ran, if I remember correctly, ‘sent the pips to A, B, and C’—that is, sent the society’s warning to them. Then there are later entries that A and B cleared out, or left the country, and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a grim result for C. Well, I think, Doctor, that we may be able to let some light into this dark place, and I believe that young Openshaw’s only chance, for the moment, is to do exactly what I’ve told him. There’s nothing more to be said or done tonight, so hand me my violin and let us try, for half an hour, to forget the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellow men.”

By morning the sky had cleared, and the sun shone with a muted brightness through the dim veil that hangs over the great city. Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.

“You must excuse me for not waiting,” he said. “I foresee a very busy day ahead of me, looking into this case of young Openshaw’s.”

“What steps will you take?” I asked.

“That will depend a great deal on the results of my first inquiries. I may have to go down to Horsham after all.”

“You won’t go there first?”

“No, I’ll start in the City. Just ring the bell and the maid will bring your coffee.”

As I waited, I picked up the unopened newspaper from the table and let my eye run over it. It stopped on a headline that sent a chill through me.

“Holmes,” I cried, “you’re too late.”

“Ah!” he said, putting down his cup. “I feared as much. How was it done?” He spoke calmly, but I could see he was deeply shaken.

“My eye caught the name Openshaw, and the heading ‘Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge.’ Here is the report:

“‘Between nine and ten o’clock last night, Police-Constable Cook, of the H Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and a splash in the water. The night, however, was extremely dark and stormy, so that, despite the assistance of several passers-by, it was quite impossible to effect a rescue. The alarm was given, and, with the aid of the river police, the body was eventually recovered. It proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name, as appears from an envelope found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose residence is near Horsham. It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying to catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that in his haste and in the extreme darkness he missed his way and walked over the edge of one of the small landing-stages for river steamboats. The body showed no signs of violence, and there can be no doubt that the deceased was the victim of an unfortunate accident, which should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to the condition of the riverside landing-places.’”

We sat in silence for several minutes, Holmes more depressed and shaken than I had ever seen him.

“That wounds my pride, Watson,” he said at last. “A petty feeling, no doubt, but it wounds my pride. It’s become a personal matter with me now, and, if God grants me health, I’ll lay my hand on this gang. That he should come to me for help, and that I should send him away to his death—!” He sprang from his chair and paced the room in uncontrollable agitation, a flush on his sallow cheeks, his long, thin hands nervously clasping and unclasping.