6. THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP

Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of St. George’s Theological College, was badly addicted to opium. The habit, as I understand it, began as some foolish prank when he was at university. After reading De Quincey’s account of his dreams and sensations, he had soaked his tobacco in laudanum, hoping to reproduce the same effects. He discovered, as so many others have, that the practice is far easier to acquire than to abandon, and for many years he remained a slave to the drug, an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and family. I can see him now: yellow, pasty face, drooping eyelids, pupils like pinpoints, huddled in a chair—the wreck and ruin of a fine man.

One night—it was in June of ’89—the bell rang, just about the time of evening when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock. I sat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needlework down in her lap, making a little face of disappointment.

“A patient,” she said. “You’ll have to go out.”

I groaned, for I had only just come back from a long, exhausting day.

We heard the front door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps across the linoleum. Our own door flew open, and a lady dressed in some dark material, with a black veil, came into the room.

“You must excuse my calling so late,” she began, and then, suddenly losing control of herself, she ran forward, threw her arms around my wife’s neck, and sobbed on her shoulder. “Oh, I’m in such trouble!” she cried. “I so badly need a little help.”

“Why, it’s Kate Whitney,” said my wife, lifting her veil. “You quite startled me, Kate! I had no idea who you were when you came in.”

“I didn’t know what to do, so I came straight to you.” That was always the way. People in distress came to my wife like birds to a lighthouse.

“It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wine and water, and sit here comfortably and tell us everything. Or would you rather I sent James off to bed?”

“Oh, no, no! I want the doctor’s advice and help too. It’s about Isa. He hasn’t been home for two days. I’m so frightened about him!”

It was not the first time she had spoken to us about her husband’s trouble— to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend and schoolmate. We calmed and comforted her with what words we could find. Did she know where her husband was? Was there any way we could bring him back to her?

It seemed there was. She had reliable information that lately, whenever the craving seized him, he had been going to an opium den in the far East of the City. Until now his debauches had always been confined to a single day, and he had come back in the evening, twitching and shattered. But this time the spell had been on him for forty‑eight hours, and he lay there still, no doubt among the dregs of the docks, breathing in the poison or sleeping off its effects. There he was to be found, she was sure of it—at the Bar of Gold in Upper Swandam Lane. But what was she to do? How could she, a young and timid woman, force her way into such a place and drag her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?

That was the situation, and of course there was only one way out of it. Might I not escort her to this place? And then, on second thought, why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser, and as such I had influence over him. I could handle it better if I went alone. I gave her my word that I would send him home in a cab within two hours, if he was indeed at the address she had given me. And so, ten minutes later, I had left my armchair and cheerful sitting room behind and was rattling eastward in a hansom on a strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time—though only the future could show how strange it was to be.

The first stage of my adventure, however, presented no great difficulty. Upper Swandam Lane is a vile little alley lurking behind the high wharves that line the north bank of the river east of London Bridge. Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, down a steep flight of steps that led into a black gap like the mouth of a cave, I found the den I was looking for. Telling my cabman to wait, I went down the steps, worn hollow in the middle by the endless tread of drunken feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found the latch and stepped into a long, low room, thick and heavy with brown opium smoke, terraced with wooden bunks like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.

Through the gloom one could just make out bodies lying in strange, grotesque poses—rounded backs, bent knees, heads flung back, chins pointing upward—with here and there a dark, dull eye turned toward the newcomer. Out of the black shadows glimmered little red circles of light, now bright, now faint, as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes. Most lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talked together in a strange, low, monotonous murmur, their conversation coming in bursts and then suddenly trailing off