“It’s very clear.

“If you remember, Monday was an extremely hot day, and Mrs. St. Clair was walking slowly, looking around in the hope of finding a cab, because she disliked the neighborhood she was in. As she was making her way down Swandam Lane in this fashion, she suddenly heard an exclamation—a cry—and froze in horror to see her husband looking down at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning from a second-floor window. The window was open, and she clearly saw his face, which she describes as terribly agitated. He waved his hands wildly to her and then vanished from the window so abruptly that it seemed to her he had been yanked back by some irresistible force from behind. One striking detail that caught her quick, feminine eye was that although he wore a dark coat like the one he had left home in, he had on neither collar nor necktie.

“Convinced that something was wrong, she rushed up the steps—for the house was none other than the opium den where you found me tonight—and, running through the front room, she tried to go up the stairs to the first floor. At the foot of the stairs, however, she met that Lascar scoundrel I mentioned, who shoved her back and, helped by a Dane who works there as an assistant, pushed her out into the street. Tormented by the most maddening doubts and fears, she ran down the lane and, by rare good fortune, encountered in Fresno Street a group of constables with an inspector, all on their way to their beat. The inspector and two men went back with her and, despite the continued resistance of the proprietor, forced their way to the room where Mr. St. Clair had last been seen. There was no sign of him there. In fact, on that entire floor no one was found except a hideous, crippled wretch who, it seems, lived there. Both he and the Lascar swore flatly that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon. Their denial was so firm that the inspector was shaken and had almost begun to believe that Mrs. St. Clair had been mistaken when, with a cry, she sprang at a small wooden box lying on the table and tore the lid off. Out tumbled a cascade of children’s building bricks. It was the toy he had promised to bring home.

“This discovery, and the obvious confusion of the cripple, made the inspector realize that the matter was serious. The rooms were carefully searched, and everything pointed to a vile crime. The front room was plainly furnished as a sitting room and opened into a small bedroom that looked out on the back of one of the wharves. Between the wharf and the bedroom window there is a narrow strip which is dry at low tide but at high tide is covered by at least four and a half feet of water. The bedroom window was broad and opened from the bottom. On examination, traces of blood were visible on the windowsill, and several scattered drops could be seen on the wooden floor of the bedroom. Stuffed away behind a curtain in the front room were all of Mr. Neville St. Clair’s clothes, except his coat. His boots, his socks, his hat, his watch—everything was there. There were no marks of violence on any of these garments, and there was no other trace of Mr. Neville St. Clair. He must, apparently, have gone out of the window, for no other exit could be found, and the ominous bloodstains on the sill gave little hope that he could have saved himself by swimming, since the tide was at its highest at the very moment of the tragedy.

“And now as to the villains who seemed to be directly involved. The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest background, but since, according to Mrs. St. Clair’s account, he was at the foot of the stairs within a few seconds of her husband’s appearance at the window, he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime. His defense was complete ignorance. He insisted he knew nothing of the actions of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he could not in any way explain the presence of the missing gentleman’s clothes.

“So much for the Lascar manager. Now for the sinister cripple who lives on the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested on Neville St. Clair. His name is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is familiar to every man who goes often into the City. He is a professional beggar, though to evade police regulations he pretends to keep a small trade in wax matches. A little way down Threadneedle Street, on the left-hand side, there is, as you may have noticed, a small angle in the wall. That is where this creature takes his daily seat, cross-legged, with his tiny stock of matches on his lap; and since he is such a pitiful sight, a steady drizzle of charity falls into the greasy leather cap that lies on the pavement beside him. I have watched the fellow more than once before I ever thought of making his professional acquaintance, and I have been astonished at the harvest he reaps in a short time. His appearance, you see, is so striking that no one can pass him without noticing him. A shock of orange hair; a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar which, by contracting, has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip; a bulldog chin; and a pair of very piercing dark eyes, which form a strange contrast with the color of his hair—all these mark him out from the common crowd of beggars. So does his wit, for he is always ready with a retort to any bit of teasing thrown at him by passers-by.