“Yes, there was a ring. His signet ring.”

“And you’re sure this is your husband’s handwriting?”

“One of his handwritings.”

“One?”

“How he wrote when he was in a hurry. It’s very unlike his usual hand, and yet I know it perfectly well.”

“‘Dearest, don’t be frightened. Everything will turn out all right. There is a huge mistake which may take a little time to put right. Wait patiently.—NEVILLE.’ Written in pencil on the flyleaf of a book, octavo size, no watermark. Hm! Posted today in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb. Ha! And the flap was gummed, unless I’m very much mistaken, by someone who had been chewing tobacco. And you have no doubt that it is your husband’s writing, madam?”

“None. Neville wrote those words.”

“And they were posted today at Gravesend. Well, Mrs. St. Clair, the clouds are lifting, though I wouldn’t go so far as to say the danger is past.”

“But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes.”

“Unless this is a clever forgery to throw us off the scent. The ring, after all, proves nothing. It may have been taken from him.”

“No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!”

“Very well. It may, however, have been written on Monday and only posted today.”

“That is possible.”

“If so, much may have happened in between.”

“Oh, you mustn’t discourage me, Mr. Holmes. I know that all is well with him. There is such a strong sympathy between us that I would know if anything bad had happened to him. On the very day I last saw him he cut himself in the bedroom, and yet I, in the dining room, rushed upstairs at once, absolutely certain that something had happened. Do you think I would respond to such a trifle and yet be unaware of his death?”

“I’ve seen too much not to know that a woman’s intuition may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner. And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to support your belief. But if your husband is alive and able to write letters, why should he stay away from you?”

“I can’t imagine. It’s unthinkable.”

“And on Monday he said nothing before leaving you?”

“No.”

“And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?”

“Very much so.”

“Was the window open?”

“Yes.”

“Then he could have called out to you?”

“He could.”

“He only gave, as I understand it, an inarticulate cry?”

“Yes.”

“You thought it was a cry for help?”

“Yes. He waved his hands.”

“But it might have been a cry of surprise. The shock of seeing you unexpectedly might make him throw up his hands?”

“That’s possible.”

“And you thought he was pulled back?”

“He vanished so suddenly.”

“He might have jumped back. You didn’t see anyone else in the room?”

“No, but that horrible man admitted he had been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs.”

“Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see, was wearing his usual clothes?”

“But without his collar or tie. I clearly saw his bare throat.”

“Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?”

“Never.”

“Had he ever shown any signs of taking opium?”

“Never.”

“Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the main points I wanted to have absolutely clear. We’ll have a little supper now and then go to bed, for we may have a very busy day tomorrow.”

A large, comfortable room with two beds had been put at our disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was tired after my night’s adventures. Sherlock Holmes, however, was the sort of man who, when he had an unsolved problem on his mind, could go for days, even a week, without rest, turning it over, rearranging his facts, looking at it from every angle until he had either got to the bottom of it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient. It was soon clear to me that he was preparing for an all-night session. He took off his coat and waistcoat, put on a long blue dressing gown, and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs. With these he built a kind of Eastern divan, on which he perched himself cross-legged, with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him. In the dim lamplight I saw him sitting there, an old briar pipe between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly on a corner of the ceiling, blue smoke curling up from him, silent, motionless, the light shining on his strong, aquiline features. He was sitting so when I drifted off to sleep, and he was sitting so when a sudden exclamation woke me, and I found the summer sun streaming into the room. The pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the room was thick with tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap of shag I had seen the night before.

“Awake, Watson?” he asked.

“Yes.”

“Feel up to a morning drive?”

“Certainly.”

“Then get dressed. No one’s up yet, but I know where the stable-boy sleeps, and we’ll soon have the trap out.” He chuckled as he spoke, his eyes twinkling; he seemed a different man from the sombre thinker of the previous night.

As I dressed I glanced at my watch. No wonder no one was stirring. It was twenty-five minutes past four. I had barely finished when Holmes came back with the news that the boy was harness