Very soon I found I was putting away quite a lot of money. I don’t mean that just any beggar on the streets of London could make seven hundred pounds a year—which is actually less than my average earnings—but I had special advantages: my skill with disguises, and a quick wit that sharpened with practice, until I became quite a well-known character in the City. All day long a stream of pennies, with the occasional silver coin, poured into my hands, and it was a very poor day indeed when I didn’t clear at least two pounds.

As I grew richer, I grew more ambitious. I took a house in the country and eventually married, without anyone ever suspecting what my real occupation was. My dear wife knew I had “business in the City.” She had no idea what kind.

Last Monday I had finished for the day and was changing in my room above the opium den when I looked out of the window and, to my horror and astonishment, saw my wife standing in the street, staring straight up at me. I cried out in shock, threw up my arms to cover my face, and rushed to my confidant, the Lascar, begging him to stop anyone from coming up to my room. I heard her voice downstairs, but I knew she couldn’t get up to me. Quickly I stripped off my clothes, pulled on my beggar’s rags, and put on my makeup and wig. Not even a wife’s eyes could see through such a perfect disguise. Then it struck me that they might search the room and that my clothes could betray me. I flung open the window, reopening, in my haste, a small cut I had given myself that morning in the bedroom. Then I grabbed my coat, which was heavy with the coppers I had just transferred into it from the leather bag I used to carry my takings. I hurled it out of the window, and it vanished into the Thames. The rest of the clothes would have followed, but at that moment there was a rush of policemen up the stairs, and a few minutes later I discovered—rather, I admit, to my relief—that instead of being identified as Mr. Neville St. Clair, I was arrested as his murderer.

I don’t think there is anything else I need to explain. I was determined to keep my disguise as long as possible, which is why I insisted on keeping my face dirty. Knowing how terribly anxious my wife would be, I slipped off my ring and, at a moment when no constable was watching, entrusted it to the Lascar along with a hurried note telling her she had no reason to be afraid.”

“That note only reached her yesterday,” said Holmes.

“Good God! What a week she must have gone through!”

“The police have kept an eye on this Lascar,” said Inspector Bradstreet, “and I can quite see how he might have found it hard to post a letter without being seen. Most likely he passed it to some sailor customer of his, who then forgot about it for a few days.”

“That was it,” said Holmes, nodding in approval. “I’ve no doubt of it. But have you never been prosecuted for begging?”

“Many times. But what was a fine to me?”

“It must end here, though,” said Bradstreet. “If the police are to keep this quiet, there can be no more Hugh Boone.”

“I have sworn it with the most solemn oaths a man can take.”

“In that case, I think it likely no further action will be taken. But if you are ever found at it again, then everything will have to come out. I am sure, Mr. Holmes, that we owe you a great deal for clearing this matter up. I only wish I knew how you arrive at your conclusions.”

“I arrived at this one,” said my friend, “by sitting on five pillows and smoking an ounce of shag tobacco. I think, Watson, that if we drive to Baker Street now, we shall be just in time for breakfast.”