“Hmm. So much for the police court,” Holmes said thoughtfully, tossing the paper aside. “The problem we have to solve now is the chain of events that runs from a ransacked jewel case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. You see, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly taken on a far more serious and less innocent character. Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker—the gentleman with the shabby hat and all the other traits with which I’ve already wearied you. So we must now set ourselves in earnest to finding this gentleman and discovering what part he has played in this little mystery. To do that, we’ll start with the simplest methods, which are undoubtedly an advertisement in all the evening papers. If that fails, I’ll turn to other means.”

“What will you say?”

“Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now then: ‘Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker can have them by calling at 6:30 this evening at 221B Baker Street.’ That’s clear and concise.”

“Very. But will he see it?”

“He’s sure to be watching the papers, since, for a poor man, the loss was a serious one. He was obviously so frightened by his accident in breaking the window and by Peterson’s approach that he thought of nothing but running away, but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse that made him drop his bird. Then again, putting his name in will make sure he notices it, for everyone who knows him will draw his attention to it. Here you are, Peterson—run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers.”

“In which ones, sir?”

“Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James’s Gazette, Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you.”

“Very good, sir. And this stone?”

“Ah yes, I’ll keep the stone. Thank you. And—Peterson, on your way back just buy a goose and leave it here with me, because we must have one to give this gentleman in place of the one your family is now devouring.”

When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes picked up the stone and held it to the light. “It’s a lovely thing,” he said. “Just look how it flashes and sparkles. Naturally, it’s a nucleus and magnet for crime. Every good stone is. They’re the devil’s favorite bait. In the larger and older jewels, every facet may stand for a bloody deed. This stone is not yet twenty years old. It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China, and it’s remarkable in having every characteristic of a carbuncle, except that it’s blue instead of ruby red. In spite of its youth, it already has a sinister history. Two murders, an acid-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies have been committed for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallized carbon. Who would think that such a pretty trinket would feed the gallows and the prison? I’ll lock it in my strongbox now and drop the Countess a line to say we’ve recovered it.”

“Do you think this man Horner is innocent?”

“I can’t say.”

“Well then, do you think this other man, Henry Baker, had anything to do with it?”

“It’s far more likely, I think, that Henry Baker is completely innocent, and had no idea that the bird he was carrying was worth much more than if it had been made of solid gold. I’ll settle that point with a very simple test—if we get an answer to our advertisement.”

“And you can do nothing until then?”

“Nothing.”

“In that case I’ll go on with my rounds. But I’ll come back this evening at the time you mentioned, for I’d like to see the solution of such a tangled affair.”

“I’ll be very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There’s a woodcock, I believe. In light of recent events, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs. Hudson to examine its crop.”

I was delayed by a case, and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself once more in Baker Street. As I approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet and a coat buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle of light thrown from the fanlight. Just as I arrived, the door opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes’s room.

“Mr. Henry Baker, I presume,” said Holmes, rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with that easy geniality he could so readily assume. “Please take this chair by the fire, Mr. Baker. It’s a cold night, and I notice your circulation is better suited to summer than to winter. Ah, Watson, you’ve come at exactly the right moment. Is that your hat, Mr. Baker?”

“Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat.”

He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad, intelligent face that narrowed down into a pointed beard of grizzled brown. A touch of red in his nose and cheeks, and a slight tremor in the hand he held out, confirmed Holmes’s guess about his habits. His rusty black frock coat was buttoned right up to the throat, the collar turned up, and his thin wrists stuck out of the sleeves with no sign of cuff or shirt. He spoke in a slow, staccato way, choosing his words carefully, and he gave, overall, the impression of a man of learning and letters who had been badly treated by fortune