“So much for Mr. Henry Baker,” said Holmes, once the door had closed behind him. “We can be quite sure he knows absolutely nothing about the affair. Are you hungry, Watson?”

“Not particularly.”

“In that case, let’s turn dinner into a late supper and follow this lead while it’s still hot.”

“By all means.”

It was a bitter night, so we pulled on our ulsters and wrapped scarves tight around our throats. Outside, the stars glittered coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breath of passers-by burst out in white puffs like pistol smoke. Our footsteps rang out sharp and loud as we swung through the doctors’ district—Wimpole Street, Harley Street—and then along Wigmore Street into Oxford Street. In fifteen minutes we were in Bloomsbury, at the Alpha Inn, a small public house on the corner of one of the streets running down into Holborn. Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced landlord in his white apron.

“Your beer ought to be excellent if it’s as good as your geese,” he said.

“My geese!” The man looked surprised.

“Yes. I was talking not half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker, who was a member of your goose club.”

“Ah! Yes, I see. But you see, sir, those aren’t our geese.”

“Really? Whose are they, then?”

“Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.”

“Indeed? I know some of them. Which one?”

“Name of Breckinridge.”

“Ah, I don’t know him. Well, here’s to your good health, landlord, and prosperity to your house. Good night.”

“Now for Mr. Breckinridge,” Holmes went on, buttoning his coat as we stepped back into the frosty air. “Remember, Watson, that although we have something as homely as a goose at one end of this chain, at the other we have a man who will certainly get seven years’ hard labour unless we can prove his innocence. It may be that our investigation will only confirm his guilt; but in any case, we have a line of inquiry the police have missed, and which a curious stroke of chance has put into our hands. Let’s follow it through to the bitter end. Faces south, then—quick march!”

We crossed Holborn, went down Endell Street, and then through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market. One of the largest stalls bore the name “Breckinridge,” and its owner—a horsey-looking man with a sharp face and neat side-whiskers—was helping a boy to put up the shutters.

“Good evening. Cold night,” said Holmes.

The salesman nodded and shot a wary, questioning glance at my companion.

“Sold out of geese, I see,” Holmes went on, pointing at the bare marble slabs.

“Can let you have five hundred tomorrow morning.”

“That’s no use.”

“Well, there are some over on the stall under the gaslight.”

“Ah, but you were the one I was recommended to.”

“Who by?”

“The landlord of the Alpha.”

“Oh, yes. I sent him a couple of dozen.”

“Fine birds they were, too. Where did you get them from?”

To my surprise, the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.

“Now then, mister,” he snapped, cocking his head and planting his fists on his hips, “what are you playing at? Out with it, straight.”

“It’s quite straightforward. I want to know who sold you the geese you supplied to the Alpha.”

“Well, I’m not going to tell you. So there!”

“Oh, it’s no great matter; but I don’t see why you should get so hot over such a trifle.”

“Hot! You’d be hot enough if you were pestered like I am. When I pay good money for a good article, that ought to be the end of it. But it’s ‘Where are the geese?’ and ‘Who did you sell the geese to?’ and ‘What’ll you take for the geese?’ You’d think they were the only geese in the whole world, to hear the fuss that’s made about them.”

“I’ve no connection with anyone else who’s been asking questions,” said Holmes carelessly. “If you won’t tell us, the bet’s off, that’s all. But I’m always ready to back my opinion where fowls are concerned, and I’ve got a fiver riding on it that the bird I ate was country-bred.”

“Well, then, you’ve lost your fiver, because it was town-bred,” snapped the salesman.

“Nothing of the sort.”

“I say it was.”

“I don’t believe it.”

“Think you know more about fowls than me, when I’ve handled them since I was a nipper? I’m telling you, every bird that went to the Alpha was town-bred.”

“You’ll never make me believe that.”

“Will you bet, then?”

“It’s just taking your money, because I know I’m right. But I’ll put a sovereign on it with you, just to teach you not to be so stubborn.”

The salesman gave a grim chuckle. “Bring me the books, Bill,” he called.

The small boy brought over a thin little volume and a big, greasy-backed ledger, laying them side by side under the hanging lamp.

“Now then, Mr. Know-it-all,” said the salesman, “I thought I was out of geese, but before I’m done you’ll find there’s still one left in my shop. See this little book?”

“Well?”

“That’s the list