“No—but one of them was mine all the same,” whined the little man.

“Well then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it.”

“She told me to ask you.”

“Well, you can ask the King of Prussia for all I care. I’m done with it. Now get out!” He lunged forward angrily, and the questioner darted away into the darkness.

“This may save us a trip to Brixton Road,” Holmes whispered. “Come along—we’ll see what we can make of this fellow.” Pushing through the scattered knots of people lounging around the blazing stalls, my companion quickly caught up with the little man and tapped him on the shoulder. He spun around, and in the gaslight I saw that every trace of color had drained from his face.

“Who are you? What do you want?” he stammered.

“You must excuse me,” said Holmes pleasantly, “but I couldn’t help overhearing the questions you were putting to the salesman just now. I believe I can be of some help to you.”

“You? Who are you? How could you know anything about it?”

“My name is Sherlock Holmes. It’s my business to know what other people don’t know.”

“But you can’t know anything about this!”

“On the contrary, I know everything about it. You’re trying to trace some geese that were sold by Mrs. Oakshott of Brixton Road to a dealer named Breckinridge, by him to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, and by him to his club, where Mr. Henry Baker is a member.”

“Oh, sir, you’re the very man I’ve been longing to meet,” cried the little fellow, hands stretched out, fingers trembling. “I can hardly tell you how interested I am in this matter.”

Holmes hailed a passing four-wheeler. “In that case, we’d better discuss it in a cozy room rather than in this windswept market,” he said. “But before we go any further, may I ask whom I have the pleasure of assisting?”

The man hesitated for a moment. “My name is John Robinson,” he said, giving us a sidelong look.

“No, no—the real name,” said Holmes sweetly. “It’s always awkward doing business with an alias.”

A flush leapt into the stranger’s pale cheeks. “Very well,” he said. “My real name is James Ryder.”

“Exactly. Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. Please step into the cab, and I’ll soon be able to tell you everything you want to know.”

The little man looked from one of us to the other with eyes that were half-frightened, half-hopeful, like someone unsure whether he’s on the brink of a windfall or a disaster. Then he climbed into the cab, and half an hour later we were back in the sitting room at Baker Street. No one spoke during the drive, but the high, thin sound of our companion’s breathing, and the constant clenching and unclenching of his hands, betrayed the strain he was under.

“Here we are,” said Holmes cheerfully as we filed into the room. “The fire looks very seasonable in this weather. You look cold, Mr. Ryder. Please, take the basket chair. I’ll just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours. Now then—you want to know what became of those geese?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Or rather, I suspect, of that goose. It was one bird in particular that interested you, I imagine—white, with a black bar across the tail.”

Ryder shuddered with emotion. “Oh, sir,” he cried, “can you tell me where it went?”

“It came here.”

“Here?”

“Yes—and it turned out to be a most remarkable bird. I don’t wonder you took an interest in it. It laid an egg after it was dead—the prettiest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here in my collection.”

Our visitor lurched to his feet and grabbed the mantelpiece with his right hand. Holmes unlocked his strongbox and held up the blue carbuncle, which shone like a star with a cold, brilliant, many-faceted light. Ryder stared at it with a twisted expression, unsure whether to claim it or deny it.

“The game’s up, Ryder,” said Holmes quietly. “Steady, man, or you’ll fall into the fire. Give him an arm back to his chair, Watson. He hasn’t enough blood in him to go in for felony with impunity. Give him a splash of brandy. There. Now he looks a little more human. What a shrimp he is, to be sure.”

For a moment he had staggered and almost fallen, but the brandy brought a touch of color back to his cheeks, and he sat staring with terrified eyes at his accuser.

“I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proof I could possibly need, so there’s very little you need tell me. Still, we may as well clear up that little bit to make the case complete. You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone belonging to the Countess of Morcar?”

“It was Catherine Cusack who told me about it,” he said in a crackling voice.

“I see—her ladyship’s maid. Well, the temptation of sudden wealth so easily had was too much for you, as it has been for better men than you. But you weren’t very scrupulous about your methods. It seems to me, Ryder, that you have the makings of a very pretty villain. You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had been involved in some similar affair before, and that suspicion would fall all the more readily on him. What did you do then