8. THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND

Looking back over my notes on the seventy-odd cases in which, over the last eight years, I have studied the methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes, I find many that are tragic, some that are comic, a great number that are merely strange, but none that could be called ordinary. Working as he did more for the love of his art than for the acquisition of wealth, he refused to involve himself in any investigation that did not tend towards the unusual, even the fantastic. Yet of all these varied cases, I cannot recall one with more singular features than the one connected with the well-known Surrey family, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran. The events in question took place in the early days of my association with Holmes, when we were sharing bachelor lodgings in Baker Street. I might have put them on record earlier, but I had given a promise of secrecy at the time, a promise from which I have only been released within the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom it was made. It is perhaps just as well that the facts should now come to light, for I know there are widespread rumours about the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott which make the affair seem even more terrible than the truth.

It was early in April of ’83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing beside my bed, fully dressed. He was usually a late riser, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed that it was only a quarter past seven, I blinked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps with a touch of resentment, for I am a regular man in my habits.

“Sorry to drag you out of bed, Watson,” he said, “but it’s the common fate this morning. Mrs. Hudson was dragged out of hers, she retaliated on me, and I’m passing the favour on to you.”

“What is it, then—a fire?”

“No; a client. A young lady has arrived in a considerable state of agitation and insists on seeing me. She’s waiting now in the sitting room. When young ladies wander about London at this hour and knock sleepy people out of their beds, I presume they have something very urgent to communicate. If it turns out to be an interesting case, I’m sure you’ll want to follow it from the start. In any case, I thought I should call you and give you the chance.”

“My dear fellow, I wouldn’t miss it for anything.”

Nothing pleased me more than to accompany Holmes in his professional investigations and to watch his rapid deductions—swift as intuitions, yet always resting on a logical foundation—with which he unravelled the problems brought to him. I dressed quickly and in a few minutes was ready to go down with my friend to the sitting room. A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been sitting by the window, rose as we entered.

“Good morning, madam,” said Holmes cheerfully. “My name is Sherlock Holmes. This is my close friend and associate, Dr. Watson, before whom you may speak as freely as you would before me. Ah! I’m glad to see that Mrs. Hudson had the sense to light the fire. Please come closer to it, and I’ll order you a cup of hot coffee, for I see that you are shivering.”

“It is not the cold that makes me shiver,” the woman said in a low voice, moving her seat as he suggested.

“What is it, then?”

“It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror.” She raised her veil as she spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation, her face drawn and grey, her eyes restless and frightened like those of some hunted creature. Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was already streaked with grey, and her expression was worn and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran his quick, all-encompassing gaze over her.

“You must not be afraid,” he said gently, leaning forward and patting her forearm. “We shall soon set matters right, I’ve no doubt. You came up by train this morning, I see.”

“You know me, then?”

“No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart along heavy roads before you reached the station.”

The lady gave a violent start and stared at my companion in bewilderment.

“There is no mystery, madam,” he said, smiling. “The left sleeve of your jacket is spattered with mud in no fewer than seven places. The marks are perfectly fresh. No vehicle but a dog-cart throws up mud in that way, and that only when you sit on the left-hand side of the driver.”

“Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct,” she said. “I left home before six, reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can’t endure this strain any longer; I shall go mad if it continues. I have no one to turn to—no one, except one person who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can do very little to help. I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes; I heard of you from Mrs. Farintosh, whom you helped in her hour of bitter need. It was from her that I got your address. Oh, sir, don’t you think you could help me too, and at least throw a little light into the dense darkness that surrounds me? At present I have no means of paying you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married and have control of my own income, and then at least you