When Dr. Roylott was in India, he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner, the young widow of Major-General Stoner of the Bengal Artillery. My sister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old when my mother remarried. She had a substantial income—no less than a thousand pounds a year—and she left it all to Dr. Roylott for as long as we lived with him, with a clause that a fixed annual sum should be paid to each of us if we married. Shortly after we returned to England my mother died—she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe. After that, Dr. Roylott gave up trying to build a medical practice in London and took us to live with him in the old family house at Stoke Moran. The money my mother left was enough for all our needs, and there seemed to be nothing standing in the way of our happiness.

But around that time a terrible change came over our stepfather. Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with the neighbours—who had at first been delighted to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in the old family home—he shut himself up in the house and rarely came out, except to get into vicious quarrels with anyone who crossed his path. A violent temper, bordering on madness, runs in the men of his family, and in his case I believe it had been made worse by his long years in the tropics. There were a series of disgraceful fights, two of which ended up in the police court, until he became the terror of the village. People would scatter at the sight of him, for he is a man of immense strength and completely uncontrollable when he is angry.

Just last week he threw the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream, and I was only able to prevent another public scandal by handing over every penny I could scrape together. He has no friends at all except the wandering gypsies. He lets these vagabonds camp on the few bramble-covered acres that remain of the family estate, and in return he accepts their hospitality, sometimes going off with them and wandering for weeks at a time. He is also obsessed with Indian animals, which are sent to him by a contact overseas, and at this very moment he has a cheetah and a baboon roaming freely over the grounds. The villagers are almost as afraid of them as they are of him.

You can imagine from what I’ve told you that my poor sister Julia and I had very little joy in our lives. No servant would stay with us, and for a long time we did all the housework ourselves. She was only thirty when she died, and yet her hair had already begun to turn white, just as mine has.

“Your sister is dead, then?”

“She died just two years ago, and it’s her death I’ve come to talk to you about. You can understand that, living the way I’ve described, we had very little chance of meeting anyone our own age and social standing. We did, however, have an aunt—my mother’s unmarried sister, Miss Honoria Westphail—who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally allowed to pay her short visits. Julia went there at Christmas two years ago and met a half-pay major of marines, and they became engaged. My stepfather found out about the engagement when my sister came home, and he raised no objection to the marriage. But within two weeks of the date set for the wedding, the terrible event occurred that robbed me of my only companion.”

Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk into a cushion, but now he half opened his lids and glanced across at his visitor.

“Please be exact about the details,” he said.

“That’s easy for me, because every incident of that dreadful time is burned into my memory. The manor house is, as I’ve already said, very old, and only one wing is now lived in. The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor, with the sitting rooms in the central block of the building. Of these bedrooms, the first is Dr. Roylott’s, the second my sister’s, and the third my own. There is no internal connection between them, but they all open onto the same corridor. Am I being clear?”

“Perfectly.”

“The windows of all three rooms look out over the lawn. On that fatal night, Dr. Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew he had not gone to bed, because my sister was bothered by the smell of the strong Indian cigars he always smoked. She left her room and came into mine, where she sat for some time talking about her coming wedding. At eleven o’clock she got up to leave, but she paused at the door and looked back.

‘Tell me, Helen,’ she said, ‘have you ever heard anyone whistle in the middle of the night?’

‘Never,’ I said.

‘You couldn’t possibly whistle yourself in your sleep, could you?’

‘Certainly not. But why?’

‘Because for the last few nights, always around three in the morning, I’ve heard a low, clear whistle. I’m a light sleeper, and it’s woken me up. I can’t tell where it’s coming from—perhaps from the next room, perhaps from the lawn. I thought I’d ask if you’d heard it.’

‘No, I haven’t. It must be those wretched gypsies in the plantation.’

‘Very likely. And yet, if it were on the lawn, I wonder you didn’t hear it too.’

‘Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.’

‘Well, it’s no great matter, anyway.’ She smiled back at me, closed my door, and a