“Which of you is Holmes?” demanded the apparition.

“That is my name, sir. But you have the advantage of me,” my companion replied calmly.

“I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott of Stoke Moran.”

“Indeed, Doctor,” said Holmes pleasantly. “Please, have a seat.”

“I’ll do nothing of the sort. My stepdaughter has been here. I’ve tracked her. What has she been telling you?”

“It’s a little cold for the time of year,” said Holmes.

“What has she been saying to you?” shrieked the old man, beside himself with rage.

“I hear the crocuses are doing well,” my companion went on, utterly unruffled.

“Ah! Trying to put me off, are you?” snarled our visitor, stepping forward and shaking his hunting crop. “I know you, you scoundrel. I’ve heard of you before. You’re Holmes the meddler.”

My friend smiled.

“Holmes the busybody!”

His smile widened.

“Holmes the Scotland Yard jack-in-office!”

Holmes burst out laughing. “You are a most entertaining conversationalist,” he said. “When you go out, kindly close the door. There’s quite a draft.”

“I’ll go when I’ve had my say. Don’t you dare interfere in my affairs. I know Miss Stoner has been here. I tracked her! I’m a dangerous man to cross. Look here.” He stepped forward suddenly, grabbed the poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.

“Make sure you keep out of my grip,” he snarled, and, flinging the twisted poker into the fireplace, he strode out of the room.

“He seems a very amiable person,” said Holmes, laughing. “I’m not quite so large as he is, but if he’d stayed a little longer I might have shown him that my grip is not much weaker than his.” As he spoke, he picked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.

“The nerve of the man, lumping me in with the official detective force! Still, this little incident adds some spice to our investigation, and I only hope our young friend won’t suffer for her rashness in letting that brute track her here. And now, Watson, we’ll order breakfast, and afterwards I’ll walk down to Doctors’ Commons. I hope to find some information there that may help us in this matter.”

It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his errand. In his hand he held a sheet of blue paper, covered with hurried notes and figures.

“I’ve seen the will of the deceased wife,” he said. “To pin down its exact meaning I had to work out the current value of the investments it mentions. The total income, which at the time of the wife’s death was just under eleven hundred pounds, is now, thanks to the fall in agricultural prices, no more than seven hundred and fifty. Each daughter is entitled to an income of two hundred and fifty pounds upon marriage. It’s clear, then, that if both girls had married, our friend would be left with a mere pittance, and even one marriage would cripple him very seriously. My morning’s work has not been wasted, since it shows that he has the strongest possible motives for preventing any such event. And now, Watson, this is far too serious a business for us to dawdle, especially as the old man knows we’re taking an interest in his affairs. If you’re ready, we’ll call a cab and drive to Waterloo. I’d be very much obliged if you’d slip your revolver into your pocket. An Eley’s No. 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots. That, and a toothbrush, are all we need, I think.”

At Waterloo we were lucky enough to catch a train for Leatherhead. There we hired a trap at the station inn and drove four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes. It was a perfect day, with bright sunshine and a few fleecy clouds drifting overhead. The trees and hedgerows along the road were just putting out their first green shoots, and the air was full of the pleasant scent of damp earth. To me, at least, there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of spring and the sinister errand on which we were engaged. My companion sat in the front of the trap, arms folded, hat pulled down over his eyes, chin sunk on his chest, lost in the deepest thought. Suddenly he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed across the meadows.

“Look there,” he said.

A heavily wooded park rose in a gentle slope, thickening into a grove at the highest point. From among the branches jutted the grey gables and high roof-ridge of a very old house.

“Stoke Moran?” he asked.

“Yes, sir, that’s Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s place,” said the driver.

“There’s some building work going on there,” said Holmes. “That’s where we’re headed.”

“There’s the village,” the driver added, pointing to a cluster of roofs some distance off to the left. “But if you want the house itself, it’s shorter to go over this stile and take the footpath across the fields. There it is, where the lady’s walking.”

“And the lady, I imagine, is Miss Stoner,” said Holmes, shading his eyes. “Yes, I think we’d better do as you suggest.”

We got down, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on the road to Leatherhead.

“I thought it best,” said Holmes, as we climbed the stile, “that our friend should think we’d come down as architects or on some definite business.