“Oh yes, easily.”

“You’ll leave the rest to us.”

“But what are you going to do?”

“We’re going to spend the night in your room and get to the bottom of
this noise that’s been disturbing you.”

“I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you’ve already made up your mind,” said
Miss Stoner, laying her hand on my companion’s sleeve.

“Perhaps I have.”

“Then, for pity’s sake, tell me what caused my sister’s death.”

“I’d rather have clearer proof before I say anything.”

“You can at least tell me whether my own idea is right—whether she died
from some sudden fright.”

“No, I don’t think so. I believe there was probably some more tangible
cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you, for if Dr. Roylott
comes back and finds us here, our whole journey will have been wasted.
Good-bye—and be brave, for if you do exactly as I’ve told you, you may
rest assured that we’ll soon drive away the danger that threatens you.”

Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in getting a bedroom and a
sitting room at the Crown Inn. They were on the top floor, and from our
window we had a clear view of the avenue gate and the inhabited wing of
Stoke Moran Manor House. At dusk we saw Dr. Grimesby Roylott drive
past, his huge figure looming beside the small, slight boy who drove
him. The lad had some trouble unfastening the heavy iron gates, and we
heard the doctor’s hoarse bellow and saw the fury with which he shook
his clenched fists at him. The trap rolled on, and a few minutes later
we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as a lamp was lit in
one of the sitting rooms.

“You know, Watson,” said Holmes, as we sat together in the gathering
darkness, “I have some scruples about taking you with me tonight. There
is a definite element of danger.”

“Can I be of any help?”

“Your presence might be invaluable.”

“Then I’m certainly coming.”

“That’s very good of you.”

“You speak of danger. You’ve clearly seen more in those rooms than I
did.”

“No, but I suspect I may have drawn a few more conclusions. I imagine
you saw everything I saw.”

“I noticed nothing remarkable except the bell-rope—and what purpose
that could serve, I confess I cannot imagine.”

“You saw the ventilator as well?”

“Yes, but I don’t think it’s anything very unusual to have a small
opening between two rooms. It was so small a rat could hardly squeeze
through.”

“I knew we’d find a ventilator before we ever came to Stoke Moran.”

“My dear Holmes!”

“Oh yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said her sister could
smell Dr. Roylott’s cigar. That, of course, immediately suggested there
must be some connection between the two rooms. It could only be a small
one, or it would have been noticed at the coroner’s inquest. I deduced
a ventilator.”

“But what harm could there be in that?”

“Well, at the very least, the dates form a curious coincidence. A
ventilator is installed, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in that
bed dies. Doesn’t that strike you?”

“I still can’t see any connection.”

“Did you notice anything particularly odd about that bed?”

“No.”

“It was clamped to the floor. Have you ever seen a bed fastened down
like that before?”

“I can’t say that I have.”

“The lady couldn’t move her bed. It had to remain in the same position
relative to the ventilator and to the rope—or so we may call it, since
it was clearly never meant to be a bell-pull.”

“Holmes,” I cried, “I begin to see dimly what you’re getting at. We’ve
arrived just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.”

“Subtle enough, and horrible enough. When a doctor goes wrong, he is
the very worst of criminals. He has nerve, and he has knowledge. Palmer
and Pritchard were among the leading men of their profession. This man
strikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we’ll be able to strike
deeper still. But we’ll have horrors enough before the night is over;
for heaven’s sake let’s have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few
hours to something more cheerful.”

Around nine o’clock the light among the trees went out, and all was
dark in the direction of the Manor House. Two slow hours crawled by,
and then, suddenly, just as the clock struck eleven, a single bright
light shone out directly in front of us.

“That’s our signal,” said Holmes, springing to his feet. “It comes from
the middle window.”

As we went out, he exchanged a few words with the landlord, explaining
that we were paying a late visit to an acquaintance and might possibly
spend the night there. A moment later we were out on the dark road, a
chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow light twinkling ahead
of us through the gloom, guiding us on our sombre errand.

It was easy enough to get into the grounds, for unrepaired gaps yawned
in the old park wall. Picking our way among the trees, we reached the
lawn, crossed it, and were just about to climb in through the window
when, from a clump of laurel bushes, there darted out what looked like
a hideous, twisted child. It