9. THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER’S THUMB

Of all the problems that have been brought to my friend Mr. Sherlock Holmes over the years of our friendship, there were only two that I myself introduced to his attention: the case of Mr. Hatherley’s thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness. The latter may have offered a richer field for a sharp and original observer, but the former was so strange in its beginning and so dramatic in its details that it may be more deserving of being put on record, even if it gave my friend fewer chances to display those deductive methods by which he achieved such remarkable results. The story has, I believe, appeared more than once in the newspapers, but like all such accounts, it loses much of its force when compressed into a single half-column of print, instead of having the facts unfold slowly before your eyes and the mystery clear bit by bit as each new discovery provides another step toward the whole truth. At the time, the circumstances made a deep impression on me, and even the passing of two years has hardly weakened it.

It was in the summer of ’89, not long after my marriage, that the events I am about to relate took place. I had returned to civilian practice and had finally left Holmes in his Baker Street rooms, though I visited him constantly and occasionally even persuaded him to abandon his Bohemian habits far enough to come and see us. My practice had grown steadily, and as I lived not very far from Paddington Station, I picked up a few patients from among the railway officials. One of these, whom I had cured of a painful and lingering illness, was tireless in singing my praises and in sending to me every sufferer over whom he had the slightest influence.

One morning, a little before seven o’clock, I was woken by the maid knocking at the door to tell me that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting room. I dressed in haste, for I knew from experience that railway cases were rarely trivial, and hurried downstairs. As I reached the bottom, my old ally, the guard, came out of the room and shut the door firmly behind him.

“I’ve got him here,” he whispered, jerking his thumb over his shoulder. “He’s all right.”

“What is it, then?” I asked, for his manner suggested that he had trapped some strange creature in my room.

“It’s a new patient,” he whispered. “I thought I’d bring him round myself; then he couldn’t slip away. There he is, safe and sound. I must go now, Doctor; I’ve got my dooties, same as you.” And off he went, that faithful tout, without even giving me time to thank him.

I went into my consulting room and found a gentleman seated at the table. He was neatly dressed in a heather-tweed suit, with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down on my books. One of his hands was wrapped in a handkerchief, blotched all over with blood. He was young—no more than five-and-twenty, I should say—with a strong, masculine face; but he was extremely pale and gave me the impression of a man suffering from some powerful agitation which it took all his self-control to master.

“I’m sorry to drag you out so early, Doctor,” he said, “but I’ve had a very serious accident during the night. I came in by train this morning, and when I asked at Paddington where I could find a doctor, a good fellow there kindly brought me here himself. I gave the maid my card, but I see she’s left it on the side table.”

I picked it up and glanced at it. “Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic engineer, 16A Victoria Street (3rd floor).” That was the name, profession, and address of my early-morning visitor. “I’m sorry to have kept you waiting,” I said, sitting down in my armchair. “You’ve just come off a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a rather monotonous experience.”

“Oh, my night could hardly be called monotonous,” he said, and laughed.

He laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back in his chair and shaking with it. Every medical instinct I had rose up against that laugh.

“Stop that!” I snapped. “Get a hold of yourself.” I poured some water from a carafe.

It was no use. He was in the grip of one of those hysterical fits that sometimes seize a strong nature when a great crisis is past. After a while he came to himself again, looking very tired and very pale.

“I’ve been making a fool of myself,” he gasped.

“Not at all. Drink this.” I splashed some brandy into the water, and the colour began to creep back into his bloodless cheeks.

“That’s better,” he said. “And now, Doctor, perhaps you’d be kind enough to look at my thumb—or rather, at the place where my thumb used to be.”

He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. Even my hardened nerves gave a shudder at the sight. Four fingers stuck out, and where the thumb should have been there was a horrible red, spongy surface. It had been hacked or torn clean out by the roots.

“Good heavens!” I cried. “This is a terrible injury. It must have bled heavily.”

“Yes, it did. I fainted when it happened, and I think I must have been unconscious for a long time. When I came to, it was still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tight around the wrist and braced it up with a twig.”

“Excellent! You should have been