10. THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR

The marriage of Lord St. Simon, and its strange ending, have long since stopped being a topic of interest in those lofty circles in which the unlucky bridegroom moves. New scandals have overshadowed it, and their spicier details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama. I have reason to believe, however, that the full facts have never been made known to the general public, and since my friend Sherlock Holmes played a considerable part in clearing the matter up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some brief sketch of this remarkable episode.

It was a few weeks before my own marriage, in the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came home from an afternoon walk and found a letter lying on the table waiting for him. I had stayed indoors all day, for the weather had suddenly broken into rain with strong autumn winds, and the jezail bullet I had brought back in one of my limbs as a souvenir of my Afghan campaign was throbbing with a dull persistence. With my body in one armchair and my legs stretched out on another, I had surrounded myself with a fog of newspapers until at last, saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all aside and lay idle, staring at the huge crest and monogram on the envelope on the table and lazily wondering who my friend’s noble correspondent might be.

“This is a very fashionable letter,” I remarked as he came in. “Your morning post, if I remember correctly, was from a fishmonger and a customs officer.”

“Yes, my correspondence certainly has the charm of variety,” he replied with a smile, “and the humbler letters are usually the more interesting. This looks like one of those unwelcome social invitations that force a man either to be bored or to lie.”

He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.

“Well now, this may turn out to be something interesting after all.”

“Not social, then?”

“No, definitely professional.”

“And from a noble client?”

“One of the highest in England.”

“My dear fellow, I congratulate you.”

“I assure you, Watson, without any affectation, that my client’s rank matters far less to me than the interest of his case. It is just possible, however, that that too may not be lacking in this new investigation. You’ve been reading the papers closely of late, haven’t you?”

“It looks like it,” I said ruefully, pointing to the huge bundle in the corner. “I’ve had nothing else to do.”

“Good; then you may be able to bring me up to date. I read nothing except the crime reports and the agony column. The latter is always instructive. But if you’ve followed recent events so closely, you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?”

“Oh yes, with the deepest interest.”

“Excellent. The letter I’m holding is from Lord St. Simon. I’ll read it to you, and in return you can go through those papers and give me everything that bears on the matter. This is what he says:

    “‘MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,—Lord Backwater tells me that I may
    place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion. I have
    therefore decided to call upon you and consult you regarding the
    very painful incident which has occurred in connection with my
    wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is already engaged on the
    matter, but he assures me that he sees no objection to your
    co-operation, and that he even thinks it might be of some
    assistance. I will call at four o’clock in the afternoon, and,
    should you have any other engagement at that time, I hope that you
    will postpone it, as this matter is of paramount importance.
    Yours faithfully,

    “‘ROBERT ST. SIMON.’

“It’s dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the noble lord has had the misfortune to smear ink on the outer side of his right little finger,” Holmes remarked, folding up the letter.

“He says four o’clock. It’s three now. He’ll be here in an hour.”

“Then, with your help, I have just time to get clear on the subject. Go through those papers and arrange the relevant extracts in chronological order, while I take a look at who our client is.” He picked a red-covered volume from a row of reference books beside the mantelpiece. “Here he is,” he said, sitting down and flattening it on his knee. “‘Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St. Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral.’ Hm. ‘Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable. Born in 1846.’ He’s forty-one, which is a mature age for marriage. Was Under-Secretary for the Colonies in a recent administration. The Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs. They inherit Plantagenet blood in the direct line, and Tudor on the female side. Ha! Well, there’s nothing very instructive in all that. I think I must turn to you, Watson, for something more substantial.”

“I’ve had very little difficulty finding what I want,” I said, “for the facts are quite recent, and the case struck me as remarkable. I hesitated to bring them to you, though, as I knew you had an inquiry on hand and disliked having other matters intrude.”

“Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van. That’s quite cleared up now—though it was obvious from the start. Please give me the results of your newspaper search.”

“Here