“Anything else?” Holmes asked, stifling a yawn.

“Oh yes, plenty. There’s another notice in the Morning Post saying the wedding would be absolutely quiet, held at St. George’s, Hanover Square; that only half a dozen close friends would be invited; and that the party would return afterward to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which Mr. Aloysius Doran has taken. Two days later—that is, last Wednesday—there’s a brief announcement that the wedding has taken place, and that the honeymoon will be spent at Lord Backwater’s place near Petersfield. Those are all the notices that appeared before the bride disappeared.”

“Before the what?” Holmes asked sharply.

“The lady’s disappearance.”

“When did she disappear, then?”

“During the wedding breakfast.”

“Really? This is more interesting than it first sounded—positively dramatic.”

“Yes, it struck me as being rather out of the ordinary.”

“They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the honeymoon, but I can’t recall anything quite so prompt as this. Please, let me have the details.”

“I warn you, they’re very incomplete.”

“Perhaps we can make them less so.”

“Such as they are, they’re all contained in a single article from yesterday’s morning paper, which I’ll read to you. It’s headed, ‘Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding’:

‘The family of Lord Robert St. Simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and distressing events connected with his wedding. The ceremony, as briefly announced in yesterday’s papers, took place on the previous morning; but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the extraordinary rumours which have been so persistently circulating. In spite of the efforts of the friends to hush the matter up, so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by pretending to ignore what has become a common topic of conversation.

‘The ceremony, which was performed at St. George’s, Hanover Square, was a very quiet one, no one being present except the bride’s father, Mr. Aloysius Doran; the Duchess of Balmoral; Lord Backwater; Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St. Simon (the bridegroom’s younger brother and sister); and Lady Alicia Whittington. The whole party then proceeded to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had been prepared. It appears that some slight disturbance was caused by a woman, whose name has not been ascertained, who tried to force her way into the house after the bridal party, claiming that she had some claim upon Lord St. Simon. It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman. The bride, who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption, had sat down to breakfast with the others when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room. Her prolonged absence having caused some comment, her father followed her, but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her bedroom for an instant, snatched up an ulster and a bonnet, and hurried down to the hall. One of the footmen stated that he had seen a lady leave the house so attired, but had refused to believe that it was his mistress, assuming that she was still with the company. On discovering that his daughter had disappeared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, together with the bridegroom, immediately put themselves in communication with the police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular affair. Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing had come to light as to the whereabouts of the missing lady. There are rumours of foul play, and it is said that the police have arrested the woman who caused the original disturbance, in the belief that, from jealousy or some other motive, she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of the bride.’”

“And that’s all?”

“Only one small item in another morning paper, but it’s a suggestive one.”

“And that is—?”

“That Miss Flora Millar, the woman who caused the disturbance, has actually been arrested. It appears she was formerly a dancer at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for several years. There are no further details, and the whole case is now in your hands—so far as it has been set out in the public press.”

“And it appears to be an exceedingly interesting case. I wouldn’t have missed it for anything. But there’s the bell, Watson, and as the clock shows it’s a few minutes after four, I’ve no doubt this will be our noble client. Don’t think of leaving, Watson; I very much prefer having a witness, if only as a check on my own memory.”

“Lord Robert St. Simon,” announced our page-boy, flinging open the door.

A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultivated face, high-nosed and pale, with perhaps a touch of petulance about the mouth, and the steady, well-opened eyes of a man whose happy lot it has always been to command and be obeyed. His manner was brisk, yet his general appearance gave an exaggerated impression of age, for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend in the knees as he walked. His hair, too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled at the edges and thin on top. As for his clothes, they were careful to the point of dandyism: high collar, black frock coat, white waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters. He came slowly into the room, turning his head from side to