“In San Francisco, a year ago.”

“You were traveling in the States?”

“Yes.”

“Did you get engaged then?”

“No.”

“But you were on friendly terms?”

“I was entertained by her company, and she could see that I was entertained.”

“Her father is very rich?”

“He’s said to be the richest man on the Pacific coast.”

“And how did he make his money?”

“In mining. A few years ago he had nothing. Then he struck gold, invested it, and rose by leaps and bounds.”

“Now, what’s your own impression of the young lady’s—your wife’s—character?”

The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire. “You see, Mr. Holmes,” he said, “my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man. Until then she ran wild in a mining camp and roamed through woods and mountains, so her education comes from Nature rather than from any schoolmaster. She’s what we in England call a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, not bound by any sort of tradition. She’s impetuous—volcanic, I was about to say. She decides quickly and is fearless in carrying out her decisions. On the other hand, I would never have given her the name I have the honour to bear”—he gave a small, dignified cough—“if I had not believed that, at heart, she is a noble woman. I believe she’s capable of heroic self‑sacrifice, and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her.”

“Do you have her picture?”

“I brought this with me.” He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very beautiful woman. It was not a photograph but an ivory miniature, and the artist had captured the full effect of the glossy black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth. Holmes gazed at it long and intently. Then he closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St. Simon.

“The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your acquaintance?”

“Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season. I met her several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her.”

“She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?”

“A decent dowry. No more than is usual in my family.”

“And this, of course, remains with you, since the marriage is a fait accompli?”

“I really haven’t made any inquiries on that point.”

“Quite naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?”

“Yes.”

“Was she in good spirits?”

“Never better. She kept talking about what we would do with our future lives.”

“Indeed. That is very interesting. And on the morning of the wedding?”

“She was as bright as could be—at least until after the ceremony.”

“And did you notice any change in her then?”

“Well, to tell the truth, that was when I first saw any sign that her temper could be just a little sharp. The incident, however, is too trivial to relate and can’t possibly have any bearing on the case.”

“Let us have it all the same.”

“Oh, it’s childish. She dropped her bouquet as we were walking toward the vestry. She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over into the pew. There was a moment’s delay, but the man in the pew handed it back up to her, and it didn’t seem any the worse for the fall. Yet when I spoke to her about it, she answered me abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly upset over this trifling matter.”

“Indeed. You say there was a gentleman in the pew. So some of the general public were present?”

“Oh yes. It’s impossible to keep them out when the church is open.”

“This gentleman was not one of your wife’s friends?”

“No, no; I call him a gentleman out of politeness, but he was quite an ordinary‑looking fellow. I hardly noticed what he looked like. But really, I think we’re straying rather far from the point.”

“Lady St. Simon, then, came back from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it. What did she do when she re‑entered her father’s house?”

“I saw her talking with her maid.”

“And who is her maid?”

“Alice is her name. She’s an American and came over from California with her.”

“A trusted servant?”

“A little too much so. It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties. Still, of course, in America they look at these things differently.”

“How long did she talk to this Alice?”

“Oh, a few minutes. I had other things on my mind.”

“You didn’t overhear what they said?”

“Lady St. Simon said something about ‘jumping a claim.’ She was in the habit of using that sort of slang. I’ve no idea what she meant.”

“American slang is sometimes very expressive. And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?”

“She went into the breakfast room.”

“On your arm?”

“No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that. Then, after we had been sitting for ten minutes or so, she got up suddenly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She never came back.”

“But this maid, Alice, as I understand, states that she went to her room, covered her bridal dress with a long ulster, put on a bonnet, and went out.”

“Exactly. And she was later seen walking into Hyde Park in the company of Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who had already caused a disturbance at Mr. Doran’s house