“In short, that she had suddenly gone mad?”

“Well, really, when I think that she has turned her back—not on me, I won’t put it that way—but on so much that so many have longed for and never attained, I can hardly explain it in any other way.”

“That is certainly one possible theory,” said Holmes, smiling. “And now, Lord St. Simon, I believe I have almost all the information I need. May I ask whether you were seated at breakfast so that you could see out of the window?”

“We could see the opposite side of the road and the Park.”

“Exactly. Then I don’t think I need keep you any longer. I’ll be in touch with you.”

“If you should be fortunate enough to solve this problem,” said our client, rising.

“I have solved it.”

“Eh? What was that?”

“I said that I have solved it.”

“Then where is my wife?”

“That is a detail I shall very soon be able to supply.”

Lord St. Simon shook his head. “I’m afraid it will take wiser heads than yours or mine,” he remarked, and with a stately, old-fashioned bow he took his leave.

“It’s very kind of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by placing it on a level with his own,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “I think I’ll have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all that cross-examination. I had already reached my conclusions about the case before our client came into the room.”

“My dear Holmes!”

“I have notes on several similar cases, though none, as I mentioned before, that were quite so rapid. My whole examination merely turned my guess into a certainty. Circumstantial evidence can sometimes be very convincing—like finding a trout in the milk, to borrow Thoreau’s example.”

“But I’ve heard everything you’ve heard.”

“Without, however, the knowledge of the earlier cases which is so useful to me. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years ago, and something very similar in Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War. It’s one of those cases—but, hello, here’s Lestrade! Good afternoon, Lestrade! You’ll find an extra glass on the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box.”

The official detective was dressed in a pea coat and a cravat that gave him a distinctly nautical look, and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand. With a brief greeting he sat down and lit the cigar that had been offered to him.

“What’s the matter, then?” asked Holmes, a twinkle in his eye. “You look displeased.”

“And I feel displeased. It’s this damned St. Simon marriage case. I can’t make head or tail of it.”

“Really! You astonish me.”

“Who ever heard of such a tangled business? Every clue slips through my fingers. I’ve been working on it all day.”

“And it seems to have made you very wet,” said Holmes, laying his hand on the sleeve of the pea coat.

“Yes, I’ve been dragging the Serpentine.”

“For heaven’s sake, what for?”

“Looking for the body of Lady St. Simon.”

Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.

“Have you dragged the basin of the Trafalgar Square fountain?” he asked.

“Why? What are you getting at?”

“Because you’ve just as good a chance of finding the lady in one as in the other.”

Lestrade shot him an angry look. “I suppose you know all about it,” he snarled.

“I’ve only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up.”

“Oh, really! Then you think the Serpentine has nothing to do with the case?”

“I think it highly unlikely.”

“Then perhaps you’ll be good enough to explain how it is that we found this in it?” He opened his bag as he spoke and dumped onto the floor a wedding dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes, and a bride’s wreath and veil, all stained and dripping wet. “There,” he said, placing a new wedding ring on top of the pile. “There’s a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes.”

“Oh, really?” said my friend, blowing blue smoke rings into the air. “You dragged them from the Serpentine?”

“No. They were found floating near the edge by a park-keeper. They’ve been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there, the body wouldn’t be far away.”

“By the same brilliant reasoning, every man’s body is to be found somewhere near his wardrobe. And what exactly did you hope to achieve by this?”

“To get some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance.”

“I’m afraid you’ll find that difficult.”

“Will I, indeed?” cried Lestrade, with some bitterness. “I’m afraid, Holmes, that you’re not very practical with your deductions and inferences. You’ve made two blunders in as many minutes. This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar.”

“How so?”

“There’s a pocket in the dress. In the pocket is a card case. In the card case is a note. And here is the note itself.” He slapped it down on the table in front of him. “Listen to this: ‘You will see me when all is ready. Come at once. F. H. M.’ Now my theory all along has been that Lady St. Simon was lured away by Flora Millar and that she, with accomplices no doubt, is responsible for her disappearance. Here, signed with her initials, is the very note that was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and that drew her into their power.”

“Very good, Lestrade,” said Holmes, laughing. “