Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes walked briskly into the room.  
His features were set and serious, but there was a light in his eye that told me his expectations had been fulfilled.

“So they’ve laid out supper,” he said, rubbing his hands.

“You seem to be expecting company. They’ve set places for five.”

“Yes, I imagine we may have a few visitors dropping in,” he replied. “I’m surprised Lord St. Simon isn’t here already. Ah! I think I hear his step on the stairs now.”

It was indeed our afternoon visitor who came bustling in, swinging his eyeglasses more vigorously than ever, his aristocratic face deeply disturbed.

“My messenger reached you, then?” asked Holmes.

“Yes, and I admit the contents shocked me beyond measure. Are you sure of your information?”

“Absolutely sure.”

Lord St. Simon dropped into a chair and ran his hand over his forehead.

“What will the Duke say,” he muttered, “when he hears that a member of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?”

“It was sheer accident. I really cannot admit that there is any humiliation in it.”

“Ah, you look at these things from a different point of view.”

“I don’t see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly imagine how the lady could have acted differently, though the abrupt way she did it is certainly to be regretted. With no mother, she had no one to advise her at such a crisis.”

“It was an insult, sir, a public insult,” said Lord St. Simon, drumming his fingers on the table.

“You must make allowances for this poor girl, placed in such an unprecedented position.”

“I will make no allowances. I am extremely angry, and I have been shamefully treated.”

“I think I just heard the bell,” said Holmes. “Yes, there are footsteps on the landing. If I can’t persuade you to take a more lenient view, Lord St. Simon, I’ve brought an advocate who may succeed where I fail.” He opened the door and showed in a lady and a gentleman. “Lord St. Simon,” he said, “allow me to introduce Mr. and Mrs. Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I believe, you have already met.”

At the sight of the newcomers our client had sprung to his feet. He stood very straight, eyes cast down, one hand thrust into the breast of his frock coat—a picture of wounded dignity. The lady had taken a quick step toward him and held out her hand, but he still refused to look up. It was probably just as well for his resolve, for her pleading face would have been hard to resist.

“You’re angry, Robert,” she said. “Well, I guess you’ve every reason to be.”

“Please don’t apologize to me,” said Lord St. Simon bitterly.

“Oh, yes, I know I’ve treated you really badly, and that I ought to have spoken to you before I went; but I was all rattled, and from the moment I saw Frank here again I didn’t know what I was doing or saying. I only wonder I didn’t drop right down in a faint there at the altar.”

“Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would prefer my friend and me to leave the room while you explain?”

“If I may say so,” put in the stranger, “there’s been just a bit too much secrecy about this business already. For my part, I’d be glad if all Europe and America heard the plain truth of it.” He was a small, wiry, sunburned man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and an alert manner.

“Then I’ll tell our story straight off,” said the lady. “Frank and I met in ’84, in McQuire’s camp near the Rockies, where Pa was working a claim. Frank and I got engaged; but then one day Father struck a rich pocket and made a fortune, while poor Frank’s claim fizzled out and came to nothing. The richer Pa got, the poorer Frank seemed, until at last Pa wouldn’t hear of our engagement going on. He took me away to ’Frisco.  

“Frank wouldn’t give up, though. He followed me there, and he saw me without Pa knowing anything about it. It would only have made Pa furious if he’d found out, so we just settled it all between ourselves. Frank said he’d go off and make his own pile and never come back to claim me till he had as much as Pa. So I promised to wait for him till the end of time and swore I wouldn’t marry anyone else while he was alive.  

“‘Then why shouldn’t we get married right now?’ he said. ‘Then I’ll be sure of you; and I won’t claim to be your husband until I come back.’ Well, we talked it over, and he’d arranged it all so neatly, with a clergyman waiting and ready, that we just went through with it then and there. After that Frank went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to Pa.

“The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, then he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico. After that came a long newspaper report about a miners’ camp that had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank’s name among the dead. I fainted clean away, and I was very ill for months afterward. Pa thought I was in a decline and took me to half the doctors in ’Frisco. Not a word of news came for over a year, so I never doubted Frank was really dead.  

“Then Lord St. Simon came to ’Frisco, and we came to London, and the marriage was arranged. Pa was delighted, but all the