“‘Exactly.’ He opened the case, and there, set in soft, flesh-colored velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewelry he had named. ‘There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ he said, ‘and the value of the gold chasing is beyond calculation. The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at twice the amount I have requested. I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.’

“I took the precious case in my hands and looked, puzzled, from it to my distinguished client.

“‘You doubt its value?’ he asked.

“‘Not at all. I only doubt—’

“‘The propriety of my leaving it. You can set your mind at rest on that point. I would never dream of doing so if I were not absolutely certain that I will be able to reclaim it in four days’ time. It is purely a matter of form. Is the security sufficient?’

“‘More than sufficient.’

“‘You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of the confidence I have in you, based on all I have heard about you. I rely on you not only to be discreet and to avoid all gossip about the matter, but, above all, to guard this coronet with every possible precaution, because I need hardly say that a great public scandal would arise if any harm were to befall it. Any damage to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss, for there are no beryls in the world to equal these, and it would be impossible to replace them. I leave it with you, however, in full confidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.’

“Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more, but, calling in my cashier, I ordered him to pay out fifty notes of one thousand pounds each. When I was alone again, with the precious case lying on the table in front of me, I could not help feeling some misgivings about the immense responsibility I had taken on myself. There could be no doubt that, since it was a national possession, a dreadful scandal would follow if any misfortune should happen to it. I already regretted ever having agreed to take charge of it. However, it was too late to change matters now, so I locked it away in my private safe and turned once more to my work.

“When evening came, I felt it would be unwise to leave so valuable an object behind me at the office. Bankers’ safes have been broken into before now—why should mine be an exception? If that happened, how terrible my position would be! I therefore decided that, for the next few days, I would always carry the case back and forth with me, so that it would never really be out of my reach. With this in mind, I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, taking the jewel with me. I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau in my dressing room.

“And now a word about my household, Mr. Holmes, for I want you to understand the situation thoroughly. My groom and my page sleep out of the house and may be dismissed from consideration altogether. I have three maidservants who have been with me for many years and whose complete reliability is beyond suspicion. Another, Lucy Parr, the second lady’s maid, has only been in my service a few months. She came with an excellent reference, however, and has always given me satisfaction. She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally loitered about the place. That is the only drawback we have found in her, but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every respect.

“So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have only one son, Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes—a bitter disappointment. I have no doubt that I am myself to blame. People tell me I have spoiled him. Very likely I have. When my dear wife died, I felt that he was all I had left to love. I could not bear to see the smile fade from his face, even for a moment. I have never refused him anything. Perhaps it would have been better for both of us if I had been stricter, but my intentions were good.

“It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business, but he has no head for business. He is wild, wayward, and, to tell the truth, I could not trust him with large sums of money. When he was young he joined an aristocratic club, and there, having charming manners, he soon became intimate with a number of men with deep pockets and extravagant habits. He learned to gamble heavily at cards and to throw away money on the turf, until, again and again, he had to come to me and beg me to advance him money on his allowance so that he could settle his debts of honour. More than once he tried to break away from the dangerous company he was keeping, but each time the influence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back again.

“And indeed, I cannot be surprised that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain influence over him, for he has often brought him to my house, and I myself have found it hard to resist the charm of his manner. He is older than Arthur, a man of the world to his fingertips, one who has been everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty. Yet when I think of him coolly, away from the glamour of his presence, I am convinced, from his cynical talk and from a look I have sometimes caught