“You must excuse my starting without you, Watson,” he said. “You remember our client has a rather early appointment this morning.”

“It’s after nine already,” I replied. “I shouldn’t be surprised if that’s him now. I thought I heard the bell.”

It was indeed our friend the financier. I was shocked by the change in him. His face, naturally broad and strong, was now pinched and sunken, and his hair looked to me at least a shade whiter. He came in with a weariness and listlessness even more painful than the wild agitation of the previous morning, and he dropped heavily into the armchair I pulled forward for him.

“I don’t know what I’ve done to be so sorely tested,” he said. “Only two days ago I was a happy, successful man without a care in the world. Now I’m left to a lonely and disgraced old age. One sorrow treads on the heels of another. My niece Mary has deserted me.”

“Deserted you?”

“Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and a note for me was lying on the hall table. I had said to her last night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all might have been well with him. Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so. It’s to that remark that she refers in this note:

    ‘MY DEAREST UNCLE,—I feel that I have brought trouble upon you,
    and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might
    never have occurred. I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever
    again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you
    forever. Do not worry about my future, for that is provided for;
    and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless
    labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in death, I am ever
    your loving,

    MARY.’

“What can she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think she’s hinting at suicide?”

“No, no, nothing of the sort. In fact, this may be the best possible outcome. I trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles.”

“Ah! You say that! You’ve heard something, Mr. Holmes; you’ve discovered something! Where are the gems?”

“You wouldn’t consider a thousand pounds apiece an excessive price for them, would you?”

“I’d pay ten thousand.”

“That won’t be necessary. Three thousand will settle the matter. And there’s a small reward, I imagine. Do you have your chequebook? Here is a pen. Better make it out for four thousand pounds.”

With a dazed expression, the banker wrote the cheque as requested. Holmes walked over to his desk, took out a small triangular piece of gold set with three gems, and tossed it onto the table.

With a cry of joy, our client snatched it up.

“You have it!” he gasped. “I’m saved! I’m saved!”

The swing from despair to joy was as violent as his grief had been, and he pressed the recovered gems to his chest.

“There is one more thing you owe, Mr. Holder,” said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.

“Owe?” He seized the pen again. “Name the amount and I’ll pay it.”

“No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to that noble lad, your son, who has conducted himself in this affair as I should be proud to see my own son do—if I ever happen to have one.”

“Then it wasn’t Arthur who took them?”

“I told you yesterday, and I repeat today, that it was not.”

“You’re sure of it? Then let’s go to him at once and tell him the truth is known.”

“He already knows. Once I had cleared everything up, I went to see him, and when I found he wouldn’t tell me the story, I told it to him. He had to admit I was right, and he added the very few details that were still unclear to me. But your news this morning may loosen his tongue further.”

“For Heaven’s sake, then, tell me what this extraordinary mystery is!”

“I will, and I’ll show you the steps by which I reached it. Let me first say to you what is hardest for me to say and for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now run away together.”

“My Mary? Impossible!”

“Unfortunately, it is more than possible; it is certain. Neither you nor your son knew this man’s true character when you admitted him into your family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men in England—a ruined gambler, a completely desperate scoundrel, a man without heart or conscience. Your niece knew nothing of such men. When he poured out his vows to her, as he has done to a hundred women before her, she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart. The devil alone knows exactly what he said, but at any rate she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him almost every evening.”

“I cannot, and I will not, believe it!” cried the banker, his face ashen.

“Then let me tell you what happened in your house last night. Your niece, when she thought you had gone to your room, slipped downstairs and spoke to her lover through the window that opens onto the stable lane. His footprints had sunk deep into the snow, he had been standing there so long. She told him about the coronet. His wicked greed for gold flared up at the news, and he bent her to his will. I’ve no