“To a man who loves art for its own sake,” said Sherlock Holmes, tossing aside the advertisement page of The Daily Telegraph, “it’s often in its least important and humblest forms that the keenest pleasure is found. I’m pleased to see, Watson, that you’ve grasped this truth to the extent that, in these little records of our cases which you’ve been kind enough to write—and, I must say, occasionally to embellish—you’ve focused not so much on the many famous causes célèbres and sensational trials in which I’ve appeared, but rather on those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves, yet gave scope for those powers of deduction and logical synthesis which I’ve made my special field.”

“And yet,” I said, smiling, “I can’t quite acquit myself of the charge of sensationalism that has been brought against my accounts.”

“You have erred, perhaps,” he replied, picking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and using it to light the long cherry-wood pipe which usually replaced his clay when he was in a combative rather than a reflective mood, “you have erred, perhaps, in trying to put colour and life into each of your narratives instead of confining yourself to the task of recording that rigorous reasoning from cause to effect which is really the only remarkable feature of the matter.”

“I think I’ve done you full justice in that respect,” I answered rather coolly, for I was put off by the egotism which I had more than once noticed as a strong element in my friend’s strange character.

“No, it isn’t selfishness or vanity,” he said, responding, as he so often did, to my thoughts rather than my words. “If I insist on full justice for my art, it’s because it is an impersonal thing—something beyond myself. Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore it’s on the logic, rather than on the crime, that you should dwell. You’ve degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of stories.”

It was a cold early-spring morning, and after breakfast we sat on either side of a cheerful fire in the old Baker Street room. A thick fog was rolling down between the rows of drab-coloured houses, and the windows opposite loomed like dark, shapeless smudges through the heavy yellow coils. The gas was lit and shone on the white tablecloth and the gleam of china and metal, for the table had not yet been cleared. Sherlock Holmes had been silent all morning, poring steadily over the advertisement columns of one newspaper after another until at last, apparently abandoning his search, he had emerged in no very amiable mood to lecture me on my literary shortcomings.

“At the same time,” he went on after a pause, during which he sat puffing at his long pipe and staring into the fire, “you can hardly be accused of sensationalism, for a fair proportion of the cases you’ve been so kind as to take an interest in don’t concern crime, in the legal sense, at all. The small matter in which I tried to help the King of Bohemia, the curious experience of Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem of the man with the twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor were all outside the scope of the law. But in avoiding the sensational, I’m afraid you may have strayed into the trivial.”

“The outcome may have been trivial,” I replied, “but I maintain that the methods were new and interesting.”

“Nonsense, my dear fellow. What does the public—the great unobservant public, who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a printer by his left thumb—care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction? But in any case, if you are trivial, I can’t blame you, for the days of the great cases are over. Man—or at least the criminal man—has lost all enterprise and originality. As for my own small practice, it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding schools. I think I’ve reached the bottom at last, though. This note I received this morning marks my zero point, I fancy. Read it.” He tossed a crumpled letter across to me.

It was dated from Montague Place the previous evening, and ran as follows:

    DEAR MR. HOLMES,—I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I
    should or should not accept a position which has been offered to
    me as a governess. I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do
    not inconvenience you. Yours faithfully,

    VIOLET HUNTER.

“Do you know the young lady?” I asked.

“Not at all.”

“It’s half-past ten now.”

“Yes, and I’ve no doubt that’s her ring.”

“This may turn out to be more interesting than you think. You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which seemed at first to be a mere whim, developed into a serious investigation. It may be the same in this case.”

“Let’s hope so. But our doubts will soon be resolved, for here, unless I’m very much mistaken, is the person in question.”

As he spoke, the door opened and a young lady entered the room. She was plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face, freckled like a plover’s egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had to make her own way in the world.

“I’m sure you’ll excuse my troubling you,” she said, as my companion rose to greet her, “but I’ve had a very strange experience, and as I have no parents or relations of any kind from whom I could ask advice, I thought perhaps you would be kind