“That will do,” he said. “I couldn’t ask for anything better. Splendid, splendid!” He seemed genuinely delighted and rubbed his hands together in the friendliest way. He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was actually a pleasure just to look at him.

“You’re looking for a position, miss?” he asked.

“Yes, sir.”

“As a governess?”

“Yes, sir.”

“And what salary are you asking?”

“I had four pounds a month in my last place, with Colonel Spence Munro.”

“Oh, tut, tut! Exploitation—sheer exploitation!” he cried, flinging his plump hands into the air like a man in a towering rage. “How could anyone offer such a miserable sum to a lady with your attractions and accomplishments?”

“My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you think,” I said. “A little French, a little German, music, and drawing—”

“Tut, tut!” he broke in. “That’s all quite beside the point. The question is, do you or do you not have the bearing and deportment of a lady? That’s the whole matter in a nutshell. If you do not, you are not fit to bring up a child who may one day play a considerable part in the history of the country. But if you do, then how could any gentleman ask you to stoop to accept anything under three figures? Your salary with me, madam, would begin at a hundred pounds a year.”

You can imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, as penniless as I was, such an offer seemed almost too good to be true. The gentleman, however, perhaps noticing the disbelief on my face, opened a pocketbook and took out a banknote.

“It is also my custom,” he said, smiling so pleasantly that his eyes became two little shining slits in the white folds of his face, “to advance my young ladies half their salary beforehand, so that they may meet any small expenses of their journey and wardrobe.”

It seemed to me that I had never met such a charming and considerate man. As I was already in debt to my tradespeople, the advance was extremely convenient, and yet there was something unnatural about the whole arrangement that made me want to know a little more before I fully committed myself.

“May I ask where you live, sir?” I said.

“In Hampshire. Delightful country spot. The Copper Beeches, five miles beyond Winchester. It’s the loveliest countryside, my dear young lady, and the dearest old country house.”

“And my duties, sir? I should be glad to know what they would be.”

“One child—one dear little rascal, just six years old. Oh, if you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper! Smack! smack! smack! Three gone before you could blink!” He leaned back in his chair and laughed until his eyes disappeared again into his head.

I was a little shocked at the nature of the child’s amusement, but the father’s laughter made me think that perhaps he was only joking.

“My only duties, then,” I asked, “would be to look after a single child?”

“No, no, not your only duties, not your only duties, my dear young lady,” he cried. “Your duty would be, as I am sure your good sense would suggest, to obey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that they were such commands as a lady might properly obey. You see no difficulty there, eh?”

“I should be happy to make myself useful.”

“Quite so. In matters of dress, for example. We are faddish people, you know—faddish but kind-hearted. If you were asked to wear any dress that we might give you, you would not object to our little whim, eh?”

“No,” I said, considerably astonished by his words.

“Or to sit here, or sit there—that would not offend you?”

“Oh, no.”

“Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?”

I could hardly believe my ears. As you can see, Mr. Holmes, my hair is rather abundant, and of a somewhat unusual shade of chestnut. It has been considered artistic. I could not dream of sacrificing it in such an offhand way.

“I’m afraid that is quite impossible,” I said. He had been watching me intently with his small eyes, and I saw a shadow pass over his face as I spoke.

“I’m afraid it is quite essential,” he said. “It is a little fancy of my wife’s, and ladies’ fancies, you know, madam—ladies’ fancies must be considered. So you won’t cut your hair?”

“No, sir, I really could not,” I answered firmly.

“Ah, very well; that quite settles the matter. It’s a pity, because in other respects you would have done very nicely. In that case, Miss Stoper, I had better look over a few more of your young ladies.”

The manageress had sat there all the while, busy with her papers, without a word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with such annoyance on her face that I could not help suspecting she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal.

“Do you wish your name to be kept on our books?” she asked.

“If you please, Miss Stoper.”

“Well, really, it seems rather pointless, since you refuse the most excellent offers in this way,” she said sharply. “You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you. Good day to you, Miss Hunter.” She struck a gong on the table, and the page showed me out.

Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found very little in the cupboard and two or three bills on