“‘JEPHRO RUCASTLE.’

“That’s the letter I’ve just received, Mr. Holmes, and I’ve decided to accept the offer. Still, before I take the final step, I wanted to lay the whole matter before you.”

“Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles it,” said Holmes, smiling.

“But you wouldn’t advise me to turn it down?”

“I admit it’s not the sort of position I’d like a sister of mine to apply for.”

“What does it all mean, Mr. Holmes?”

“Ah, I have no data. I can’t say. Perhaps you’ve formed an opinion yourself?”

“Well, it seems to me there’s only one possible explanation. Mr. Rucastle struck me as a very kind, good-natured man. Isn’t it possible that his wife is insane, that he wants to keep it quiet for fear she’ll be taken to an asylum, and that he indulges all her whims to prevent an outburst?”

“That’s a possible explanation—in fact, as things stand, it’s the most likely one. But even so, it doesn’t sound like a pleasant household for a young woman.”

“But the money, Mr. Holmes—the money!”

“Yes, of course the pay is good—too good. That’s what worries me. Why should they offer you a hundred and twenty pounds a year when they could have their pick for forty? There must be some powerful reason behind it.”

“I thought that if I told you all the circumstances, you’d understand later if I needed your help. I’d feel so much stronger if I knew you were behind me.”

“Oh, you may go with that assurance. I can promise you your little problem is the most interesting that has come my way for some months. There’s something distinctly new about several of its features. If you find yourself in doubt or in danger—”

“Danger! What danger do you foresee?”

Holmes shook his head gravely. “It stops being a danger the moment we can define it,” he said. “But at any time, day or night, a telegram would bring me down to help you.”

“That’s enough.” She sprang up from her chair, the anxiety swept from her face. “I shall go down to Hampshire with an easy mind now. I’ll write to Mr. Rucastle at once, sacrifice my poor hair tonight, and start for Winchester tomorrow.” With a few grateful words to Holmes she wished us both good night and bustled away.

“At least,” I remarked, as we heard her quick, firm steps going down the stairs, “she seems to be a young lady very well able to look after herself.”

“And she’ll need to be,” said Holmes gravely. “I shall be very much surprised if we don’t hear from her within a few days.”

His prediction was fulfilled soon enough. A fortnight passed, during which my thoughts often turned to her and to the strange side-alley of human experience into which this solitary woman seemed to have wandered. The unusually high salary, the odd conditions, the light duties—all pointed to something abnormal, though whether it was a harmless eccentricity or a sinister plot, whether the man was a philanthropist or a villain, was beyond me to decide. As for Holmes, I noticed that he would often sit for half an hour at a stretch, brows knitted, lost in thought; but when I mentioned the matter he brushed it aside with a wave of his hand. “Data! data! data!” he cried impatiently. “I can’t make bricks without clay.” And yet he always ended by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a position.

The telegram we finally received came late one night, just as I was thinking of going to bed and Holmes was settling down to one of those all-night chemical researches he so often indulged in, when I would leave him bent over a retort and a test tube at night and find him in exactly the same position when I came down to breakfast. He tore open the yellow envelope and, after glancing at the message, tossed it across to me.

“Just look up the trains in Bradshaw,” he said, turning back to his chemical studies.

The summons was brief and urgent:

“Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday tomorrow. Do come! I am at my wit’s end.

“HUNTER.”

“Will you come with me?” asked Holmes, looking up.

“I should like to, very much.”

“Then look it up.”

“There’s a train at half-past nine,” I said, running my eye over Bradshaw. “It gets to Winchester at eleven-thirty.”

“That will do very well. In that case I’d better postpone my analysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in the morning.”

By eleven o’clock the next day we were well on our way to the old English capital. Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down, but once we crossed the Hampshire border he threw them aside and began to look out at the countryside. It was a perfect spring day: a pale blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting from west to east. The sun shone brightly, and yet there was a bracing nip in the air that sharpened a man’s energy. All across the landscape, away to the rolling hills around Aldershot, the little red and grey roofs of the farmsteads peeped out from the light green of the new leaves.

“Aren’t they fresh and beautiful?” I cried, with all the enthusiasm of a man just escaped from the fogs of Baker Street.

But Holmes shook his head gravely.

“You know, Watson,” he said, “one of the curses of a mind like mine is that I have