“You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curious I became about what this extraordinary performance could possibly mean. They were always very careful, I noticed, to turn my face away from the window, and that only made me burn with the desire to see what was happening behind my back. At first it seemed impossible, but I soon thought of a way. My hand-mirror had been broken, and a sudden idea struck me. I hid a piece of the glass in my handkerchief. 

The next time, in the middle of my laughing, I raised my handkerchief to my eyes and, with a little maneuvering, I was able to see everything behind me. I must admit I was disappointed at first. There was nothing. At least, that was my first impression. On a second look, however, I noticed a man standing in the Southampton Road—a small, bearded man in a gray suit—who seemed to be looking in my direction. The road is a main thoroughfare, and there are usually people on it. This man, however, was leaning against the railings that border our field and was staring intently up. 

I lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle, only to find her eyes fixed on me with the most searching gaze. She said nothing, but I am convinced she had guessed that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me. She stood up at once.

“‘Jephro,’ she said, ‘there is an impertinent fellow on the road who is staring up at Miss Hunter.’

“‘No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?’ he asked.

“‘No, I know no one in this area.’

“‘Dear me! How very impertinent! Please turn around and signal to him to go away.’

“‘Surely it would be better to ignore him.’

“‘No, no, then he’ll be hanging about here all the time. Please turn around and wave him away like this.’

“I did as I was told, and at that very moment Mrs. Rucastle pulled down the blind. That was a week ago, and since then I have not sat in the window, nor worn the blue dress, nor seen the man on the road.”

“Please go on,” said Holmes. “Your story promises to be extremely interesting.”

“You may find it rather disjointed, I’m afraid, and there may turn out to be little connection between the different incidents I describe. On the very first day I arrived at the Copper Beeches, Mr. Rucastle took me to a small outbuilding near the kitchen door. As we approached it I heard the sharp rattle of a chain and the sound of a large animal moving about.

“‘Look in here!’ said Mr. Rucastle, showing me a slit between two planks. ‘Isn’t he a beauty?’

“I looked through and became aware of two glowing eyes and a vague shape hunched in the darkness.

“‘Don’t be frightened,’ said my employer, laughing at the start I had given. ‘It’s only Carlo, my mastiff. I call him mine, but really old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can manage him. We feed him once a day, and not too much even then, so he’s always as keen as mustard. Toller lets him loose every night, and God help the trespasser he sinks his teeth into. For heaven’s sake, never, under any circumstances, set foot outside the door at night, or it will be as much as your life is worth.’

“The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened to look out of my bedroom window at about two in the morning. It was a beautiful moonlit night, and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day. I was standing there, absorbed in the peaceful beauty of the scene, when I became aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches. As it stepped out into the moonlight, I saw what it was. It was a gigantic dog, as big as a calf, tawny-colored, with drooping jowls, a black muzzle, and huge, jutting bones. It walked slowly across the lawn and disappeared into the shadow on the far side. That dreadful sentinel sent a chill through my heart such as no burglar could ever have done.

“And now I have a very strange experience to tell you. As you know, I had cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a large coil at the bottom of my trunk. One evening, after the child was in bed, I began amusing myself by examining the furniture in my room and rearranging my own little belongings. There was an old chest of drawers there: the two upper drawers were empty and open, the lower one was locked. I had filled the first two with my linen, and as I still had a good deal to put away, I was naturally annoyed at not being able to use the third drawer. It occurred to me that it might have been locked by simple oversight, so I took out my bunch of keys and tried them. The very first key fit perfectly, and I pulled the drawer open. There was only one thing in it, and I’m sure you would never guess what it was. It was my coil of hair.

“I picked it up and examined it. It was the same peculiar shade, the same thickness. But then the impossibility of it struck me. How could my hair be locked in the drawer? With trembling hands I opened my trunk, turned out the contents, and took my own hair from the bottom. I laid the two tresses side by side, and I assure you they were identical. Was that not