“He might find something,” Holmes remarked with a shrug. “He has the occasional flash of sense. *There are no fools so troublesome as those with a bit of wit.*”

“You see!” said Athelney Jones, coming back up the steps. “Facts beat mere theories, after all. My view of the case is confirmed. There’s a trapdoor leading to the roof, and it’s partly open.”

“It was I who opened it.”

“Oh, indeed! So you did notice it, then?” He looked a little crestfallen at that. “Well, whoever noticed it, it shows how our gentleman got away. Inspector!”

“Yes, sir,” came the answer from the passage.

“Ask Mr. Sholto to step this way.—Mr. Sholto, it is my duty to inform you that anything you say may be used against you. I arrest you, in the Queen’s name, as being concerned in the death of your brother.”

“There, now! Didn’t I tell you!” cried the poor little man, flinging out his hands and staring from one to the other of us.

“Don’t distress yourself about it, Mr. Sholto,” said Holmes. “I think I can undertake to clear you of the charge.”

“Don’t promise too much, Mr. Theorist—don’t promise too much!” snapped the detective. “You may find it harder than you think.”

“Not only will I clear him, Mr. Jones, but I’ll make you a free gift of the name and description of one of the two people who were in this room last night. His name, I have every reason to believe, is Jonathan Small. He’s poorly educated—small, active—with his right leg missing, and a wooden stump that’s worn away on the inner side. His left boot has a coarse, square-toed sole, with an iron band round the heel. He’s middle-aged, deeply sunburned, and has been a convict. These few indications may be of some use to you, along with the fact that there’s a good deal of skin missing from the palm of his hand. The other man—”

“Ah! The other man—?” asked Athelney Jones in a sneering voice, though I could easily see how much Holmes’s precision had impressed him all the same.

“Is a rather curious person,” said Sherlock Holmes, turning on his heel. “I hope before very long to be able to introduce you to the pair of them.—A word with you, Watson.”

He led me out to the head of the stairs.

“This unexpected turn,” he said, “has rather made us lose sight of the original purpose of our journey.”

“I was just thinking that,” I answered. “It isn’t right that Miss Morstan should remain in this stricken house.”

“No. You must escort her home. She lives with Mrs. Cecil Forrester, in Lower Camberwell, so it’s not very far. I’ll wait for you here if you’ll drive back again. Or perhaps you’re too tired?”

“Not at all. I don’t think I could rest until I know more of this fantastic business. I’ve seen something of the rough side of life, but I give you my word that this rapid succession of strange surprises tonight has shaken my nerve completely. Still, I should like to see it through with you, now that I’ve come this far.”

“Your presence will be of great service to me,” he said. “We’ll work the case out independently, and leave this fellow Jones to crow over any wild-goose chase he cares to invent. When you’ve dropped Miss Morstan, I want you to go on to No. 3, Pinchin Lane, down near the water’s edge at Lambeth. The third house on the right is a bird-stuffer’s—Sherman is his name. You’ll see a weasel holding a young rabbit in the window. Rouse old Sherman, and tell him, with my compliments, that I want Toby at once. Bring Toby back in the cab with you.”

“A dog, I suppose.”

“Yes—a queer mongrel, with an astonishing power of scent. I’d rather have Toby’s help than the whole detective force of London.”

“Then I’ll bring him,” said I. “It’s one o’clock now. I ought to be back before three, if I can get a fresh horse.”

“And I,” said Holmes, “shall see what I can learn from Mrs. Bernstone, and from the Indian servant who, Mr. Thaddeus tells me, sleeps in the next garret. Then I’ll study the great Jones’s methods and listen to his not-too-delicate sarcasms. *We are used to seeing people mock what they do not understand.* Goethe is always sharp.”