“If we’re going to Norwood, it might be best to start at once,” I ventured.

He laughed until his ears turned quite red. “That would never do,” he cried. “I’ve no idea what he’d say if I brought you in so abruptly. No, I must prepare you by showing you how we all stand to one another. To begin with, I must tell you there are several points in this story that I don’t know myself. I can only set the facts before you as far as they’ve come to me.

“My father was, as you’ve probably guessed, Major John Sholto, formerly of the Indian army. He retired about eleven years ago and came to live at Pondicherry Lodge in Upper Norwood. He had done well in India, and brought back a considerable sum of money, a large collection of valuable curios, and a staff of native servants. With these advantages he bought a house and lived in great luxury. My twin brother Bartholomew and I were his only children.

“I remember perfectly the stir caused by Captain Morstan’s disappearance. We read the details in the newspapers, and since we knew he had been a friend of our father’s, we talked about the case freely in front of him. He would even join in our guesses as to what might have happened. Never for a moment did we suspect that he carried the whole secret locked inside his own breast—that of all men alive he alone knew what had become of Arthur Morstan.

“We did know, however, that some mystery—some real danger—hung over our father. He was very afraid of going out alone, and he always kept two prize-fighters as porters at Pondicherry Lodge. Williams, who drove you tonight, was one of them. He was once the lightweight champion of England. Our father would never tell us what it was he feared, but he had a strong, unmistakable aversion to men with wooden legs. Once he actually fired his revolver at a wooden-legged man who turned out to be a harmless tradesman canvassing for orders. We had to pay a large sum to hush the affair up. My brother and I used to think it was just one of my father’s whims, but later events have made us change our minds.

“Early in 1882 my father received a letter from India that gave him a terrible shock. He nearly fainted at the breakfast table when he opened it, and from that day he declined steadily until he died. What the letter contained we never discovered, but I saw as he held it that it was short and written in a scrawling hand. He had suffered for years from an enlarged spleen, but now he grew worse with alarming speed, and toward the end of April we were told there was no hope, and that he wished to make one last communication to us.

“When we went into his room he was propped up with pillows, breathing heavily. He begged us to lock the door and come to either side of the bed. Then, gripping our hands, he made a remarkable statement, in a voice broken as much by emotion as by pain. I’ll try to give it to you in his very words.

“‘There is only one thing,’ he said, ‘that weighs on my mind at this supreme moment. It is how I have treated poor Morstan’s orphan. The cursed greed that has been my besetting sin all my life has kept from her the treasure—at least half of it—which should have been hers. And yet I have made no use of it myself—so blind and foolish a thing is avarice. The mere feeling of possession has been so dear to me that I could not bear to share it with another. Look at that chaplet dipped with pearls beside the quinine bottle. Even that I could not bring myself to part with, though I took it out intending to send it to her. You, my sons, will give her a fair share of the Agra treasure. But send her nothing—not even the chaplet—until I am gone. After all, men have been as bad as this and have recovered.

“‘I will tell you how Morstan died,’ he went on. ‘He had suffered for years from a weak heart, but he hid it from everyone. I alone knew. In India, he and I, through a remarkable chain of circumstances, came into possession of a considerable treasure. I brought it over to England, and on the night Morstan arrived he came straight here to claim his share. He walked over from the station and was admitted by my faithful old Lal Chowdar, who is now dead. Morstan and I disagreed about how the treasure should be divided, and we fell into angry words. Morstan sprang up from his chair in a fit of rage, when suddenly he clapped his hand to his side, his face turned a dark, dusky colour, and he fell backward, striking his head against the corner of the treasure chest. When I bent over him I found, to my horror, that he was dead.

“‘For a long time I sat half out of my mind, wondering what I should do. My first impulse was, of course, to call for help; but I couldn’t ignore that there was every chance I would be accused of his murder. His death at the very moment of a quarrel, and the cut on his head, would look black against me. And besides, an official inquiry could not be held without bringing out certain facts about the treasure, which I was particularly anxious to keep secret. He had told me that no soul on earth knew where he had gone. There seemed no reason why any soul ever should.

“‘I was still turning it over when, looking up, I saw my servant, Lal Chowdar, standing in the doorway. He slipped in and shot the