“Our next move seems fairly obvious,” I said.

“And what would you do?”

“I’d hire a launch and go downriver on the trail of the *Aurora*.”

“My dear fellow, it would be a gigantic undertaking. She might have put in at any wharf on either bank between here and Greenwich. Below the bridge there’s a regular maze of landing-stages for miles. If you tried it alone, it would take you days upon days to work through them all.”

“Then use the police.”

“No. I shall probably bring in Athelney Jones at the very last moment. He’s not a bad sort, and I shouldn’t like to do anything that might damage him professionally. But I have a fancy to see it through myself, now that we’ve come this far.”

“Could we advertise, then—ask the wharfingers for information?”

“Worse and worse! Our men would know the hunt was close behind them, and they’d be off out of the country. As it is, they’re quite likely to bolt; but so long as they believe themselves perfectly safe, they won’t be in any hurry. Jones’s energy will be useful to us there, because his view of the case is sure to force its way into the daily papers, and the fugitives will think everyone is running on the wrong scent.”

“What are we to do, then?” I asked, as we came ashore near Millbank Penitentiary.

“Take this hansom, drive home, eat some breakfast, and get an hour’s sleep. There’s every chance we’ll be on our feet again tonight. Stop at a telegraph office, cabby! We’ll keep Toby—he may still be useful.”

We drew up at the Great Peter Street post office, and Holmes sent off his telegram. “Who do you suppose that’s to?” he asked, as we set off again.

“I’ve no idea.”

“You remember the Baker Street division of the detective police—the ones I used in the Jefferson Hope case?”

“Well,” said I, laughing.

“This is exactly the sort of case where they could be invaluable. If they fail, I have other resources; but I’ll try them first. That wire was to my grubby little lieutenant, Wiggins, and I expect he and his gang will be with us before we’ve finished breakfast.”

It was between eight and nine o’clock now, and I felt the sharp reaction after the night’s successive excitements. I was slack and worn out—my mind fogged, my body heavy with fatigue. I did not have the professional ardour that carried my companion forward, nor could I treat the matter as a neat, abstract problem of the intellect. As for the death of Bartholomew Sholto, I had heard little good of him, and I could not summon any fierce hatred of his murderers. The treasure, however, was another matter. That—at least a portion of it—belonged by right to Miss Morstan. While there remained a chance of recovering it, I was ready to devote my life to that single aim. True, if I found it, it would probably place her forever beyond my reach. Yet it would be a small and selfish love that could be swayed by such a thought. If Holmes could labour to find the criminals, I had ten times the reason to press on to find the treasure.

A bath in Baker Street and a complete change of clothes revived me wonderfully. When I came down to our sitting-room, I found breakfast laid, and Holmes pouring out the coffee.

“Here it is,” he said, laughing, and pointing to an open newspaper. “The energetic Jones and the ever-present reporter have arranged it between them. But you’ve had enough of the case. Better get your ham and eggs first.”

I took the paper from him and read the brief notice, headed “Mysterious Business at Upper Norwood.”

“About twelve o’clock last night,” said the *Standard*, “Mr. Bartholomew Sholto, of Pondicherry Lodge, Upper Norwood, was found dead in his room under circumstances which point to foul play. As far as we can learn, no actual traces of violence were found upon Mr. Sholto’s person, but a valuable collection of Indian gems which the deceased gentleman had inherited from his father has been carried off. The discovery was first made by Mr. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, who had called at the house with Mr. Thaddeus Sholto, brother of the deceased. By a singular piece of good fortune, Mr. Athelney Jones, the well-known member of the detective police force, happened to be at the Norwood Police Station, and was on the ground within half an hour of the first alarm. His trained and experienced faculties were at once directed towards the detection of the criminals, with the gratifying result that the brother, Thaddeus Sholto, has already been arrested, together with the housekeeper, Mrs. Bernstone, an Indian butler named Lal Rao, and a porter, or gatekeeper, named McMurdo. It is quite certain that the thief or thieves were well acquainted with the house, for Mr. Jones’s well-known technical knowledge and his powers of minute observation have enabled him to prove conclusively that the miscreants could not have entered by the door or by the window, but must have made their way across the roof of the building, and so through a trap-door into a room which communicated with that in which the body was found. This fact, which has been very clearly made out, proves conclusively that it was no mere haphazard burglary. The prompt and energetic action of the officers of the law shows the great advantage, on such occasions, of the presence of a single vigorous and masterful mind. We cannot but think that it supplies an argument to