## 2 — THE STATEMENT OF THE CASE

Miss Morstan came into the room with a steady step and an outward calm. She was a fair-haired young woman—small, delicate, neatly gloved, and dressed with impeccable taste. Yet there was a plainness, a quiet simplicity in her clothes that hinted at narrow means. Her dress was a sober grey-beige, without trimming or braid, and she wore a small turban of the same muted shade, relieved only by the faint suggestion of a white feather at the side. Her features were not regular, nor her complexion beautiful, but her expression was gentle and winning, and her large blue eyes were unusually spiritual and sympathetic. In my experience of women—an experience that has ranged over many nations and three separate continents—I have never seen a face that promised more clearly a refined and sensitive nature. And yet I could not help noticing that as she took the chair Sherlock Holmes set for her, her lip trembled, her hand shook, and she showed every sign of intense inward agitation.

“I have come to you, Mr. Holmes,” she said, “because you once helped my employer, Mrs. Cecil Forrester, to untangle a small domestic complication. She was deeply impressed by your kindness and your skill.”

“Mrs. Cecil Forrester,” he repeated thoughtfully. “Yes, I believe I was of some slight service to her. The case, as I recall it, was a very simple one.”

“She did not think so. But you cannot say the same of mine. I can scarcely imagine anything stranger—anything more completely inexplicable—than the position I find myself in.”

Holmes rubbed his hands, and his eyes shone. He leaned forward in his chair, his clear-cut, hawk-like face set in an expression of extraordinary concentration.

“State your case,” he said, brisk and businesslike.

I felt my presence might be awkward.

“You will, I am sure, excuse me,” I said, rising.

To my surprise, the young lady lifted her gloved hand to stop me.

“If your friend,” she said, “would be kind enough to remain, he might be of inestimable service to me.”

I sat down again.

“Briefly,” she went on, “the facts are these. My father was an officer in an Indian regiment, and he sent me home when I was quite a child. My mother was dead, and I had no relatives in England. I was placed, however, in a comfortable boarding establishment in Edinburgh, and there I remained until I was seventeen. In 1878 my father—who was senior captain of his regiment—obtained twelve months’ leave and came home. He telegraphed to me from London that he had arrived safely, and told me to come at once, giving the Langham Hotel as his address. His message, as I remember it, was full of kindness and love. When I reached London I drove to the Langham and was told that Captain Morstan was staying there, but that he had gone out the night before and had not yet returned. I waited all day with no news. That night, on the manager’s advice, I informed the police, and the next morning we advertised in all the papers. Our inquiries led to nothing; and from that day to this not a word has ever been heard of my unfortunate father. He came home with his heart full of hope, to find some peace, some comfort, and instead—”

She pressed her hand to her throat, and a choking sob broke off the sentence.

“The date?” Holmes asked, opening his notebook.

“He disappeared on the 3rd of December, 1878—nearly ten years ago.”

“His luggage?”

“It remained at the hotel. There was nothing in it to suggest a clue—some clothes, some books, and a considerable number of curiosities from the Andaman Islands. He had been one of the officers in charge of the convict-guard there.”

“Did he have any friends in town?”

“Only one that we know of—Major Sholto, of his own regiment, the 34th Bombay Infantry. The major had retired some time before and lived at Upper Norwood. We communicated with him, of course, but he did not even know that his brother officer was in England.”

“A singular case,” Holmes remarked.

“I have not yet told you the most singular part. About six years ago—to be exact, on the 4th of May, 1882—an advertisement appeared in the *Times* asking for the address of Miss Mary Morstan, and stating that it would be to her advantage to come forward. There was no name or address attached. At that time I had just entered Mrs. Cecil Forrester’s household as governess. On her advice I published my address in the advertisement column. That same day a small cardboard box arrived by post, addressed to me, and inside I found a very large, lustrous pearl. There was no note enclosed. Since then, every year on the same date, another similar box has always arrived, containing another similar pearl, with no clue as to the sender. An expert has pronounced them a rare variety and of considerable value. You can see for yourselves that they are very beautiful.”

As she spoke she opened a flat case and showed me six of the finest pearls I had ever seen.

“Your statement is most interesting,” said Sherlock Holmes. “Has anything else happened?”

“Yes—and no later than today. That is why I have come to you. This morning I received this letter, which you may perhaps read for yourself.”

“Thank you,” said Holmes. “The envelope too, please. Postmark: London, S.W. Date: July 7. Hm! A man’s thumbprint on the corner—probably the postman. Best quality paper. En