“‘The associate?’”

“Ah—there’s no great mystery in that. But you’ll know all about it soon enough. How sweet the morning air is! Look how that little cloud drifts like a pink feather from some gigantic flamingo. Now the red rim of the sun is thrusting itself up over the London bank of cloud. It shines on a good many people, but on none, I’ll wager, who are on a stranger errand than you and I. How small we feel—our petty ambitions and struggles—when we stand in the presence of the great elemental forces of nature! Are you well up in your Jean Paul?”

“Fairly. I worked back to him through Carlyle.”

“That was like following the brook to the parent lake. He makes one curious but profound remark: that the chief proof of a man’s real greatness lies in his awareness of his own smallness. It implies, you see, a power of comparison and appreciation which is itself a proof of nobility. There is much food for thought in Richter. You haven’t a pistol, have you?”

“I have my stick.”

“It’s just possible we may need something of the sort if we get to their lair. Jonathan I’ll leave to you, but if the other turns nasty I’ll shoot him dead.”

As he spoke he drew out his revolver, and, loading two of the chambers, slipped it back into the right-hand pocket of his jacket.

All this time we had been following Toby’s lead along the half-rural, villa-lined roads that run toward the metropolis. Now, however, we were coming into continuous streets, where labourers and dockmen were already stirring, and slatternly women were taking down shutters and brushing doorsteps. At the square-topped corner public-houses business was just beginning, and rough-looking men were coming out, rubbing their sleeves across their beards after their morning wet. Strange dogs sauntered up and stared at us in wonder as we passed, but our inimitable Toby glanced neither right nor left. He trotted on with his nose to the ground, and now and then gave an eager whine that told of a hot scent.

We had crossed Streatham, Brixton, Camberwell, and now found ourselves in Kennington Lane, having worked our way east of the Oval through the side-streets. The men we were after seemed to have taken a curiously zigzag route, probably in the hope of escaping notice. They had never kept to the main road when a parallel back street would serve. At the foot of Kennington Lane they had edged away to the left through Bond Street and Miles Street. Where Miles Street turns into Knight’s Place, Toby stopped going forward and began to run back and forth, one ear pricked and the other drooping—the very picture of canine indecision. Then he waddled in circles, looking up at us now and again as if asking for sympathy in his embarrassment.

“What the devil is the matter with the dog?” Holmes growled. “Surely they wouldn’t take a cab—or go off in a balloon.”

“Perhaps they stood here for some time,” I suggested.

“Ah! It’s all right. He’s off again,” said my companion, with relief.

He was off indeed; for after sniffing about once more he suddenly made up his mind and shot away with an energy and determination he had not yet shown. The scent seemed far hotter than before, for he didn’t even need to keep his nose to the ground, but tugged at his leash and tried to break into a run. From the gleam in Holmes’s eyes I could tell he believed we were nearing the end of our journey.

Our way now led down Nine Elms until we reached Broderick and Nelson’s great timber-yard, just beyond the White Eagle tavern. Here the dog, frantic with excitement, turned in through the side-gate into the yard, where the sawyers were already at work. On he raced, through sawdust and shavings, down an alley, round a passage, between two piles of wood, and at last, with a triumphant yelp, sprang up onto a large barrel that still stood on the hand-trolley which had brought it in. With tongue lolling and eyes blinking, Toby stood on the cask, looking from one to the other of us for some sign of appreciation. The staves of the barrel and the wheels of the trolley were smeared with a dark liquid, and the whole air hung heavy with the smell of creosote.

Sherlock Holmes and I stared blankly at each other—and then, at the same instant, burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter.