“This sounds promising. He’s clearly picked up the trail again,” I said.

“Ah, so he’s made a mistake as well,” Jones cried, with obvious satisfaction. “Even the best of us lose the scent sometimes. Of course it may turn out to be a false alarm; but it’s my duty, as an officer of the law, to let no chance slip. But there’s someone at the door. Perhaps it’s him.”

A heavy step came up the stairs, with loud wheezing and rattling, like a man hard pressed for breath. Once or twice he stopped, as if the climb were too much for him; but at last he reached our door and came in. His appearance matched the sounds we had heard. He was an elderly man in seafaring clothes, an old pea-jacket buttoned up to his throat. His back was bent, his knees unsteady, and his breathing painfully asthmatic. Leaning on a thick oak cudgel, his shoulders rose and fell with the effort of dragging air into his lungs. A coloured scarf was wrapped around his chin, and I could see little of his face except a pair of sharp dark eyes under bushy white brows, and long grey side-whiskers. Altogether he gave me the impression of a respectable ship’s captain brought low by age and poverty.

“What is it, my man?” I asked.

He looked around in the slow, methodical way of old age.

“Is Mr. Sherlock Holmes here?” he said.

“No; but I’m acting for him. You can tell me any message you have for him.”

“It was to him himself I was to tell it,” he said.

“But I tell you I’m acting for him. Was it about Mordecai Smith’s boat?”

“Yes. I knows well where it is. An’ I knows where the men he’s after are. An’ I knows where the treasure is. I knows all about it.”

“Then tell me, and I’ll let him know.”

“It was to him I was to tell it,” he repeated, with the peevish obstinacy of a very old man.

“Then you’ll have to wait for him.”

“No, no; I ain’t goin’ to lose a whole day to please no one. If Mr. Holmes ain’t here, then Mr. Holmes can find it all out for himself. I don’t care for the look of either of you, and I won’t tell a word.”

He shuffled toward the door, but Athelney Jones stepped in front of him.

“Wait a moment, my friend,” he said. “You have important information, and you’re not going to walk off. We’ll keep you—whether you like it or not—until our friend returns.”

The old man made a little rush for the door, but when Athelney Jones planted his broad back against it, he saw how useless resistance would be.

“Pretty sort o’ treatment this!” he shouted, stamping his stick. “I come here to see a gentleman, and you two—who I never set eyes on in my life—seize me and treat me like this!”

“You won’t be any the worse for it,” I said. “We’ll make it up to you for the loss of your time. Sit here on the sofa, and you won’t have long to wait.”

He came over sullenly enough and sat down with his face resting in his hands. Jones and I went back to our cigars and our talk. Suddenly, however, Holmes’s voice cut in on us.

“I think you might offer me a cigar too,” he said.

We both started in our chairs. There was Holmes, sitting close beside us, with an air of quiet amusement.

“Holmes!” I cried. “You here! But where’s the old man?”

“Here’s the old man,” he said, holding out a heap of white hair. “Here he is—wig, whiskers, eyebrows, and all. I thought my disguise was fairly good, but I hardly expected it to stand that test.”

“Ah, you rogue!” Jones cried, delighted. “You’d have made an actor—and a rare one. You had the proper workhouse cough, and those weak legs of yours are worth ten pounds a week. I thought I recognised the glint in your eye, though. You didn’t slip away from us so easily, you see.”

“I’ve been working in that get-up all day,” he said, lighting his cigar. “You see, a good many of the criminal class are beginning to know me—especially since our friend here took to publishing some of my cases—so I can only go on the war-path under some simple disguise like this. You got my wire?”

“Yes; that’s what brought me here.”

“How has your case gone?”

“It’s come to nothing. I’ve had to release two of my prisoners, and there’s no evidence against the other two.”

“Never mind. We’ll give you two others in their place. But you must put yourself under my orders. You’re welcome to all the official credit, but you must act along the line I lay down. Agreed?”

“Entirely—if you’ll help me get the men.”

“Good. Then, first, I’ll want a fast police boat—a steam launch—at the Westminster Stairs at seven o’clock.”

“That’s easily arranged. There’s always one about there; but I can step across the road and telephone to make sure.”

“Then I’ll want two reliable men, in case there’s resistance.”

“There’ll be two or three in the boat. What else?”

“When we secure the men, we’ll get the treasure. I think it would give my friend here pleasure to take the box round to the young lady to whom half of it rightfully belongs. Let