“It’ll be plain enough to you soon,” he said, with an offhand air. “I don’t think there’s anything else of importance here, but I’ll have a look.”

He flicked out his lens and a tape measure and moved quickly about the room on his knees—measuring, comparing, examining—his long, thin nose only inches from the boards, his small, deep-set eyes gleaming like a bird’s. His movements were so swift, silent, and furtive—like a trained bloodhound picking up a scent—that I couldn’t help thinking what a formidable criminal he might have been, had he turned that energy and sharpness against the law instead of using them in its defence. As he searched he kept muttering to himself, and at last he burst into a loud crow of delight.

“We’re certainly in luck,” he said. “We ought to have very little trouble now. Number One has had the misfortune to step in the creosote. You can see the outline of the edge of his small foot here, at the side of this foul-smelling mess. The carboy’s been cracked, you see, and the stuff has leaked out.”

“What then?” I asked.

“Why, we’ve got him—that’s all,” he said. “I know a dog that would follow that scent to the world’s end. If a pack can track a dragged herring across a whole shire, how far can a specially trained hound follow a smell as pungent as this? It sounds like a sum in the rule of three. The answer should give us the—But halloa! Here are the accredited representatives of the law.”

Heavy steps and the clamour of loud voices rose from below, and the hall door slammed with a crash.

“Before they come,” said Holmes, “just put your hand here on this poor fellow’s arm, and here on his leg. What do you feel?”

“The muscles are as hard as a board,” I answered.

“Exactly. They’re in a state of extreme contraction, far beyond ordinary rigor mortis. Taken with this distortion of the face—this Hippocratic smile, or *risus sardonicus*, as the old writers called it—what conclusion does it suggest to you?”

“Death from some powerful vegetable alkaloid,” I said, “some strychnine-like substance that would produce tetanus.”

“That was the idea that struck me the instant I saw the drawn muscles of the face. When I came into the room I looked at once for the means by which the poison entered the system. As you saw, I found a thorn that had been driven—or shot, with no great force—into the scalp. Notice that the spot struck is the one that would be turned towards the hole in the ceiling if the man were sitting upright in his chair. Now examine the thorn.”

I picked it up gingerly and held it to the lantern light. It was long, sharp, and black, with a glazed look near the point, as though some gummy substance had dried upon it. The blunt end had been trimmed and rounded with a knife.

“Is that an English thorn?” he asked.

“No, it certainly isn’t.”

“With all these data you ought to be able to draw a sound inference. But here are the regulars, so the auxiliary forces may beat a retreat.”

As he spoke, the approaching steps rang loudly along the passage, and a very stout, portly man in a grey suit strode heavily into the room. He was red-faced, burly, and full-blooded, with a pair of very small, twinkling eyes that peered sharply out from between swollen, puffy bags. Close behind him came an inspector in uniform, and the still trembling Thaddeus Sholto.

“Here’s a business!” the newcomer cried, in a muffled, husky voice. “Here’s a pretty business! But who are all these? Why, the house seems as full as a rabbit warren!”

“I think you may remember me, Mr. Athelney Jones,” said Holmes, quietly.

“Why, of course I do!” he wheezed. “It’s Mr. Sherlock Holmes—the theorist. Remember you? I’ll never forget how you lectured us all about causes and inferences and effects in the Bishopgate jewel case. It’s true you put us on the right track, but you’ll admit now it was more by good luck than good guidance.”

“It was a very simple piece of reasoning.”

“Oh, come now, come! Never be ashamed to own up. But what’s all this? Bad business! Bad business! Hard facts here—no room for theories. How lucky that I happened to be out at Norwood on another case! I was at the station when the message arrived. What do you think the man died of?”

“Oh, this is hardly a case for me to theorise about,” said Holmes, dryly.

“No, no. Still, we can’t deny you hit the nail on the head sometimes. Dear me! Door locked, I understand. Jewels worth half a million missing. How was the window?”

“Fastened; but there are footsteps on the sill.”

“Well, well—if it was fastened, the steps can have nothing to do with the matter. That’s common sense. The man might have died in a fit; but then the jewels are missing. Ha! I have a theory. These flashes come to me at times. Just step outside, sergeant—and you too, Mr. Sholto. Your friend can remain. What do you think of this, Holmes? Sholto was, by his own confession, with his brother last night. The brother died in a fit, and Sholto walked off with the treasure. How’s that?”

“On which the dead man