“It was a pretty strange fix we were in then. There we were—four of us—chained by the leg, with precious little chance of ever getting free again, and each of us carrying a secret that might have set any one of us in a palace if only we could have used it. It was enough to make a man gnaw his heart out—to have to take the kicks and cuffs of every petty little official, to live on rice and water, when that splendid fortune was lying outside for him, just waiting to be picked up. It might have driven me mad; but I was always a stubborn sort, so I simply held on and waited my time.

“At last it seemed to me that my time had come. I was moved from Agra to Madras, and from there to Blair Island in the Andamans. There are very few white convicts in that settlement, and as I had behaved well from the start, I soon found myself treated as something of a privileged man. They gave me a hut in Hope Town, a little place on the slopes of Mount Harriet, and I was left more or less to myself. It’s a bleak, fever-ridden spot, and beyond our small clearings everything was crawling with wild cannibal natives, ready enough to send a poisoned dart into us if they got the chance. There was digging and ditching and yam-planting and a dozen other jobs, so we were kept busy all day; but in the evenings we had a little time to ourselves. Among other things, I learned to mix medicines for the surgeon, and picked up a smattering of his knowledge. All the while I was watching for a chance to escape; but it’s hundreds of miles from any other land, and there’s little or no wind in those seas, so getting away was a devilishly hard business.

“The surgeon, Dr. Somerton, was a quick, sporting young fellow, and the other young officers would gather in his rooms of an evening and play cards. The surgery, where I used to make up the medicines, was next to his sitting-room, with a small window between. Often, when I felt lonely, I’d put out the lamp in the surgery, and then, standing there in the dark, I could hear their talk and watch their play. I’m fond of a hand at cards myself, and it was almost as good as being at the table, just to see the others at it. There was Major Sholto, Captain Morstan, and Lieutenant Bromley Brown, who commanded the native troops; there was the surgeon himself; and two or three prison officials—crafty old hands—who played a neat, sly, cautious game. They made a very snug little party.

“Well, one thing struck me very soon: the soldiers always seemed to lose, and the civilians to win. Mind you, I’m not saying there was anything crooked—but that’s how it went. These prison fellows had done little else but play cards ever since they’d been in the Andamans, and they knew one another’s play down to the last trick, while the others played only to pass the time and threw their cards down any old way. Night after night the soldiers got up poorer men, and the poorer they got, the keener they were to play. Major Sholto was hit the hardest. At first he paid in notes and gold, but before long it came to IOUs for big sums. Now and then he’d win for a few deals—just enough to give him hope—and then the luck would turn against him worse than ever. All day he’d wander about black as thunder, and he took to drinking a good deal more than was good for him.

“One night he lost even more heavily than usual. I was sitting in my hut when he and Captain Morstan came staggering past on their way to their quarters. They were bosom friends, those two, and never far apart. The major was raving about his losses.

“‘It’s all over, Morstan,’ he was saying as they passed my hut. ‘I’ll have to send in my papers. I’m a ruined man.’

“‘Nonsense, old chap!’ said the other, clapping him on the shoulder. ‘I’ve had a nasty blow myself, but—’ That was all I caught, but it was enough to set me thinking.

“A couple of days later Major Sholto was strolling along the beach, so I took my chance to speak to him.

“‘I’d like your advice, Major,’ said I.

“‘Well, Small—what is it?’ he asked, taking his cheroot from his lips.

“‘I wanted to ask you, sir,’ said I, ‘who’s the proper person to hand hidden treasure over to. I know where half a million lies, and since I can’t make use of it myself, I thought perhaps the best thing I could do would be to give it up to the proper authorities, and then maybe they’d shorten my sentence.’

“‘Half a million, Small?’ he gasped, staring hard at me to see if I meant it.

“‘Every bit of that, sir—in jewels and pearls. It’s lying there ready for anyone. And the strange part is, the real owner is outlawed and can’t hold property, so it goes to the first man who comes upon it.’

“‘To the government, Small,’ he stammered—‘to the government.’ But he said it unevenly, and I knew in my heart I had him.

“‘You think, then, sir, that I should give the information to the Governor-General?’ I asked, quietly.

“‘Well—well—you mustn’t do anything rash, or anything you might regret. Let me hear the whole of it, Small. Give me the facts.’

“I