“You’ve laid it all out very neatly, whether they’re the right men or not,” said Jones; “but if it were in my hands, I’d have had a squad of police in Jacobson’s Yard and nabbed them the moment they came down.”

“Which would have been never. This man Small is a pretty shrewd fellow. He’d send a scout ahead, and if anything so much as smelled wrong, he’d lie low for another week.”

“But you could have kept on Mordecai Smith and been led to their hiding place,” said I.

“In that case I’d have wasted my day. It’s a hundred to one that Smith doesn’t know where they live. So long as he has liquor and good pay, why should he ask questions? They send him messages telling him what to do. No—I’ve thought through every possible line, and this is the best.”

While we talked, we were shooting under the long chain of bridges that span the Thames. As we passed the City, the last rays of the sun gilded the cross on the summit of St. Paul’s. It was twilight before we reached the Tower.

“That’s Jacobson’s Yard,” said Holmes, pointing to a bristle of masts and rigging on the Surrey side. “Cruise gently up and down here, under cover of that string of lighters.” He took a pair of night-glasses from his pocket and studied the shore for some time. “I see my sentry at his post,” he said, “but no sign of a handkerchief.”

“Suppose we go a little way downstream and lie in wait for them,” said Jones eagerly. We were all eager by then—even the policemen and the stokers, who had only the vaguest notion of what was afoot.

“We have no right to assume anything,” Holmes answered. “It’s ten to one they go downstream, but we can’t be sure. From here we can see the entrance to the yard, and they can hardly see us. It’ll be a clear night and there’ll be plenty of light. We must stay where we are. Look how the people swarm over there in the gaslight.”

“They’re coming off work from the yard.”

“Dirty-looking rascals—but I suppose every one of them has some small immortal spark hidden away inside. You wouldn’t think it to look at them. There’s no *a priori* probability about it. Man is a strange riddle!”

“Someone calls him a soul hidden in an animal,” I suggested.

“Winwood Reade is good on that subject,” said Holmes. “He points out that while the individual man is an insoluble puzzle, in the mass he becomes a mathematical certainty. You can never predict what any one man will do, but you can say precisely what an average number will be up to. Individuals vary, but percentages stay constant. So says the statistician. But—do I see a handkerchief? Surely there’s a white flutter over there.”

“Yes, it’s your boy!” I cried. “I can see him plainly.”

“And there’s the *Aurora*,” Holmes exclaimed, “and she’s going like the devil! Full speed ahead, engineer. After that launch with the yellow light. By heaven, I’ll never forgive myself if she turns out to have the legs on us!”

She had slipped out unseen through the yard entrance and passed behind two or three small craft, so that she had a fair start before we caught sight of her. Now she was tearing down the stream, close in to the shore, at a tremendous pace. Jones watched her grimly and shook his head.

“She’s very fast,” he said. “I doubt we’ll catch her.”

“We *must* catch her!” Holmes snarled through his teeth. “More coal, stokers! Make her do all she can! If we burn the boat, we burn it—but we must have them!”

We were properly after her now. The furnaces roared, and the powerful engines whirred and clanked like some great metallic heart. Our sharp, steep prow cut the river and sent two rolling waves out to right and left. With every throb of the engines we sprang and shuddered like a living thing. A single great yellow lantern in our bows threw a long, flickering tunnel of light ahead. Right in front, a dark smear on the water showed where the *Aurora* ran, and the swirl of white foam behind her told the speed she was making. We flashed past barges, steamers, merchantmen—darting in and out, behind this one and around that. Voices hailed us from the darkness, but still the *Aurora* thundered on, and still we held close to her wake.

“More, men—more!” Holmes shouted, leaning down toward the engine-room while the fierce glow from below beat up on his eager, hawk-like face. “Every pound of steam you can get!”

“I think we’re gaining,” said Jones, his eyes fixed on the *Aurora*.

“I’m sure of it,” said I. “We’ll be up with her in a few minutes.”

At that moment, however, as ill luck would have it, a tug with three barges in tow blundered in between us. Only by throwing our helm hard over did we avoid a collision, and before we could swing round them and find our line again, the *Aurora* had gained a good two hundred yards. Still, she remained well in view, and the murky, uncertain twilight was clearing into a crisp, starry night. Our boilers were strained to the limit, and the frail shell of our craft trembled and creaked under the fierce force driving her on. We shot through the Pool, past the West India Docks, down the long