“‘Well, about that, gentlemen,’ I said, trying to stay calm though I was as keyed up as he was, ‘there’s only one deal a man in my position can make. I’ll need you to help me win my freedom—and to help my three mates win theirs. Then we’ll take you in as partners and give you a fifth share to split between you.’

“‘Hmph!’ he said. ‘A fifth share! That’s not much of a lure.’

“‘It would work out to fifty thousand each,’ I said.

“‘And how are we to get you your freedom? You know perfectly well you’re asking the impossible.’

“‘Nothing of the kind,’ I said. ‘I’ve thought it through down to the last detail. The only thing stopping our escape is that we can’t get a boat fit for the voyage, and we can’t get provisions to last that long. There are plenty of small yachts and yawls in Calcutta or Madras that would suit us well enough. You bring one over. We’ll undertake to get aboard at night, and if you put us ashore anywhere along the Indian coast, you’ll have done your part of the bargain.’

“‘If it were only one man,’ he said.

“‘All or none,’ I answered. ‘We’ve sworn it. The four of us act together—always.’

“‘You see, Morstan,’ he said, ‘Small keeps his word. He doesn’t desert a friend. I think we can trust him well enough.’

“‘It’s a filthy business,’ the other replied. ‘Still, as you say, the money would tidy up our commissions nicely.’

“‘All right, Small,’ said the major. ‘We’ll have to try to meet you, I suppose. First, of course, we must test whether your story is true. Tell me where the box is hidden, and I’ll get leave and go back to India on the monthly relief-boat to look into it.’

“‘Not so fast,’ I said, cooling as he heated. ‘I must have the consent of my three comrades. I’m telling you: with us it’s four—or nothing.’

“‘Nonsense!’ he snapped. ‘What have three black fellows to do with our agreement?’

“‘Black or blue,’ I said, ‘they’re in with me, and we go together.’

“So it ended in a second meeting, with Mahomet Singh, Abdullah Khan, and Dost Akbar all there. We went over it again, and at last we reached terms. We were to supply the two officers with charts of that part of the Agra fort, and mark the spot in the wall where the treasure was hidden. Major Sholto was to go to India to test our story. If he found the box, he was to leave it there, send out a small yacht stocked for a voyage to lie off Rutland Island, which we were to make our way to, and then return to his duties. Captain Morstan was then to apply for leave, meet us at Agra, and there we were to make the final division of the treasure—he taking the major’s share as well as his own. We bound all this with the most solemn oaths a mind could devise or lips could speak. I sat up all night with paper and ink, and by morning I had the two charts ready, signed with the sign of four—that is, of Abdullah, Akbar, Mahomet, and myself.

“Now, gentlemen, I’m wearing you out with my long tale, and I know my friend Mr. Jones is eager to have me safely packed away in chokey. I’ll make it as brief as I can. The villain Sholto went off to India—and he never came back. Captain Morstan showed me his name on a passenger list from one of the mail-boats not long after. His uncle had died and left him a fortune, and he’d left the army—yet he could still sink to treating five men the way he treated us. Morstan went over to Agra soon after, and found, as we expected, that the treasure was gone. The scoundrel had stolen every bit of it, without fulfilling a single condition on which we’d sold him the secret. From that day I lived for vengeance alone. I thought of it by day and fed it by night. It became an overpowering, consuming passion. I cared nothing for the law—nothing for the gallows. To escape, to hunt Sholto down, to get my hands on his throat—that was my one thought. Even the Agra treasure came to seem a smaller thing to me than killing Sholto.

“I’ve set my mind on many things in this life, and never on one I didn’t carry through. But it was long, grinding years before my time came. I told you I’d picked up something of medicine. One day, when Dr. Somerton was down with fever, a convict gang found a little Andaman Islander out in the woods. He was dying, and had gone off alone to some lonely place to finish it. I took him in hand, though he was as venomous as a young snake, and after a couple of months I had him right again and walking. After that he took a sort of liking to me, and could hardly be persuaded to go back to his woods—he was always hanging around my hut. I learned a little of his lingo from him, and that only made him fonder of me.

“Tonga—that was his name—was a first-rate boatman, and he owned a big, roomy canoe of his own. When I saw he was devoted to me and would do anything to serve me, I knew I’d found my chance to escape. I talked it over with him. He was