“Well, if I were to tell you all the adventures my little mate and I went through, you wouldn’t thank me for it—you’d be sitting here until sunrise. We drifted about the world, here and there, with something always cropping up to keep us away from London. But all the while I never lost sight of my purpose. I used to dream of Sholto at night. A hundred times I’ve killed him in my sleep.

“At last, though—some three or four years ago—we found ourselves back in England. It wasn’t hard to find where Sholto lived, and I set to work to learn whether he’d turned the treasure into money, or whether he still had it. I made friends with someone who could help me—I won’t name names, because I don’t want to land anyone else in trouble—and I soon found out he still had the jewels. Then I tried to get at him in all sorts of ways; but he was a sly one, and he always had two prize-fighters on guard, besides his sons and his khitmutgar.

“One day, though, I got word he was dying. I hurried straight to the garden, furious that he should slip out of my hands like that, and, looking in through the window, I saw him lying in bed with his sons on either side. I’d have forced my way in and taken my chance with the three of them—only, even as I watched, his jaw dropped, and I knew he was gone. Still, I got into his room that very night and searched his papers to see if there was any note of where he’d hidden our jewels. There wasn’t a line—so I went away as bitter and savage as any man could be. Before I left, it struck me that if I ever met my Sikh friends again, it would be some comfort to know I’d left a mark of our hatred; so I scribbled down the sign of the four of us, as it had been on the chart, and pinned it on his chest. It was too much that he should go to his grave without some token from the men he’d robbed and fooled.

“At that time we earned our living by my exhibiting poor Tonga at fairs and such places as the black cannibal. He’d eat raw meat and dance his war-dance, and we’d always have a hatful of pennies at the end of the day. I kept hearing all the news from Pondicherry Lodge, and for years there was nothing to hear except that they were hunting for the treasure. Then, at last, came what we’d waited for so long: the treasure had been found. It was up at the top of the house, in Mr. Bartholomew Sholto’s chemical laboratory. I came at once and had a look at the place, but I couldn’t see how, with my wooden leg, I was to make my way up to it. I learned, though, about a trapdoor in the roof, and about Mr. Sholto’s supper hour. It seemed to me I could manage it easily through Tonga.

“I brought him out with me, with a long rope wound round his waist. He could climb like a cat, and he soon made his way through the roof—but, as bad luck would have it, Bartholomew Sholto was still in the room, and it cost him dear. Tonga thought he’d done something very clever in killing him, for when I came up by the rope I found him strutting about, proud as a peacock. He was mightily surprised when I went for him with the rope’s end and cursed him for a little bloodthirsty imp. I took the treasure-box and lowered it down, and then slid down myself, after first leaving the sign of the four upon the table, to show that the jewels had at last come back to those who had the best right to them. Tonga then hauled up the rope, shut the window, and made off the way he’d come.

“I don’t know that I’ve anything else to tell you. I’d heard a waterman talking about the speed of Smith’s launch, the *Aurora*, so I thought she’d be a handy craft for our escape. I made a bargain with old Smith, and I was to give him a big sum if he got us safely to our ship. He knew, no doubt, that something wasn’t quite right, but he wasn’t in our secrets. That’s the truth of it all, and if I tell it to you, gentlemen, it isn’t to entertain you—for you haven’t done me any great kindness—but because I believe the best defence I can make is to hold nothing back, and let the whole world see how badly Major Sholto served me, and how innocent I am of the death of his son.”

“A very remarkable account,” said Sherlock Holmes. “A fitting close to an extremely interesting case. There’s nothing new to me in the latter part of your story, except that you brought your own rope. That I didn’t know. By the way, I’d hoped Tonga had lost all his darts—yet he managed to shoot one at us in the boat.”

“He’d lost them all, sir, except the one that was in his blow-pipe at the time.”

“Ah, of course,” said Holmes. “I hadn’t thought of that.”

“Is there any other point you’d like to ask about?” the convict said, pleasantly.

“I think not, thank you,” my companion replied.

“Well, Holmes,” said Athelney Jones, “you’re a man who must be indulged, and we all know you’re a connoisseur of crime, but duty is duty, and I’ve gone rather far in doing what you and your friend asked of me. I’ll feel easier when