“Well, I was fairly proud to be given this little command, seeing that I was a raw recruit—and a lame one at that. For two nights I kept watch with my Punjaubees. They were tall, fierce-looking fellows—Mahomet Singh and Abdullah Khan by name—both old fighting men who had carried arms against us at Chilianwallah. They spoke English well enough, but I could get very little out of them. They preferred to stand together and chatter all night in their strange Sikh tongue.

“As for me, I used to stand outside the gateway, looking down at the broad, winding river and the twinkling lights of the great city. The beat of drums, the clatter of tom-toms, and the yells and howls of the rebels—drunk with opium and with bhang—were enough to remind us, all night long, of our dangerous neighbours across the stream. Every two hours the officer of the night came round to all the posts, to make sure that everything was in order.

“The third night of my watch was dark and foul, with a small, driving rain. It was miserable work, standing in the gateway hour after hour in such weather. I tried again and again to get my Sikhs talking, but with little success. At two in the morning the rounds came by, and for a moment broke the dullness of the night. Finding that my companions could not be drawn into conversation, I took out my pipe and set down my musket to strike a match.

“In an instant the two Sikhs were on me. One snatched up my firelock and levelled it at my head, while the other held a great knife to my throat and swore through his teeth that he would drive it into me if I moved a step.

“My first thought was that these men were in league with the rebels, and that this was the beginning of an attack. If our gate fell into the hands of the sepoys, the place must be taken, and the women and children would be dealt with as they had been at Cawnpore. Perhaps you gentlemen think I’m only building a case for myself, but I give you my word that when that came into my mind—though I could feel the knife-point at my throat—I opened my mouth with the intention of giving a scream, if it was my last, that might bring the main guard.

“The man who held me seemed to read my thoughts; for even as I braced myself he whispered, ‘Don’t make a sound. The fort is safe enough. There are no rebel dogs on this side of the river.’ There was the ring of truth in it, and I knew that if I raised my voice I was a dead man. I could see it in the fellow’s brown eyes. So I waited in silence, to learn what it was they wanted of me.

“‘Listen to me, Sahib,’ said the taller and fiercer of the two—the one they called Abdullah Khan. ‘You must either be with us now, or you must be silenced forever. The thing is too great for us to hesitate. Either you are with us heart and soul, on your oath on the Christians’ cross, or your body tonight will be thrown into the ditch and we will pass over to our brothers in the rebel army. There is no middle way. Which will it be—death or life? We can give you only three minutes to decide, for time is running, and all must be done before the rounds come again.’

“‘How can I decide?’ I said. ‘You haven’t told me what you want of me. But I tell you this: if it’s anything against the safety of the fort, I’ll have nothing to do with it—so you may as well drive your knife home, and welcome.’

“‘It is nothing against the fort,’ he said. ‘We ask only that you do what your countrymen come to this land for. We ask you to be rich. If you will be one of us tonight, we will swear to you upon the naked knife, and by the threefold oath that no Sikh was ever known to break, that you shall have your fair share of the loot. A quarter of the treasure shall be yours. We can offer no fairer.’

“‘But what treasure?’ I asked. ‘I’m as ready to be rich as any man, if you’ll only show me how it’s to be done.’

“‘You will swear, then,’ said he, ‘by your father’s bones, by your mother’s honour, by the cross of your faith, to raise no hand and speak no word against us—either now or later?’

“‘I will swear it,’ I answered, ‘provided the fort is not put in danger.’

“‘Then my comrade and I will swear that you shall have a quarter of the treasure, which will be divided equally among the four of us.’

“‘There are only three,’ said I.

“‘No. Dost Akbar must have his share. We can tell you the story while we wait for them. Stand at the gate, Mahomet Singh, and give warning of their coming. The matter stands thus, Sahib—and I tell it to you because I know an oath binds a Feringhee, and that we may trust you. Had you been a lying Hindoo, though you had sworn by all the gods in their false temples, your blood would already be on the knife and your body in the water. But the Sikh knows the Englishman, and the Englishman knows the Sikh. Listen, then, to what I have to say.

“‘There is a rajah in the northern provinces who has great wealth, though his lands are small. Much came to him from his father, and more still he has stored up himself, for he is of a mean