**1 – MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES**

In 1878 I earned my Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of London, then went to Netley to complete the required course for army surgeons. When my training was finished, I was assigned to the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers as Assistant Surgeon. The regiment was stationed in India at the time, and before I could join them, the second Afghan war had already begun. When I landed in Bombay, I learned that my corps had advanced through the passes and was already deep in enemy territory. I followed, along with many other officers in the same situation, and managed to reach Candahar safely. There I found my regiment and immediately began my new duties.

The campaign brought honors and promotions to many, but for me it brought only misfortune and disaster. I was transferred from my brigade and attached to the Berkshires, with whom I served at the disastrous battle of Maiwand. There I was shot in the shoulder by a Jezail bullet that shattered the bone and grazed the subclavian artery. I would have fallen into the hands of the murderous Ghazis if not for the courage and loyalty of my orderly, Murray, who threw me across a packhorse and managed to bring me safely back to the British lines.

Exhausted by pain and weakened by the long hardships I had endured, I was moved with a large group of wounded men to the base hospital at Peshawar. There I began to recover, and soon I was well enough to walk around the wards and even sit for a while on the verandah. Then I was struck down by enteric fever, that curse of our Indian territories. For months my life was despaired of, and when I finally regained consciousness and began to recover, I was so weak and thin that a medical board decided I must be sent back to England immediately. I was put on the troopship *Orontes* and landed a month later at Portsmouth jetty, my health permanently ruined but with permission from a fatherly government to spend the next nine months trying to improve it.

I had no family in England, so I was as free as air—or at least as free as a man can be on an income of eleven shillings and sixpence a day. In that situation, I naturally drifted to London, that great cesspool where all the idlers and wanderers of the Empire inevitably end up. I stayed for some time at a private hotel in the Strand, living a dull and comfortless life and spending money far more freely than I should have. My finances became so alarming that I soon realized I had to either leave the city and live cheaply in the countryside or completely change my way of life. I chose the latter and decided to leave the hotel and find a simpler, cheaper place to live.

On the very day I made that decision, I was standing at the Criterion Bar when someone tapped me on the shoulder. Turning around, I saw young Stamford, who had been a dresser under me at Barts. Seeing a familiar face in the vast wilderness of London was a real pleasure for a lonely man. Back in the day, Stamford had never been a close friend, but now I greeted him warmly, and he seemed just as pleased to see me. Overjoyed, I invited him to lunch with me at the Holborn, and we set off together in a hansom cab.

“What have you been doing with yourself, Watson?” he asked in open amazement as we rattled through the crowded London streets. “You’re as thin as a stick and as brown as a nut.”

I gave him a brief account of my adventures, and I had just finished as we reached our destination.

“Poor devil!” he said sympathetically after hearing about my troubles. “What are you doing now?”

“Looking for lodgings,” I replied. “Trying to figure out whether it’s possible to find comfortable rooms at a reasonable price.”

“That’s funny,” said my companion. “You’re the second person today who’s said that to me.”

“And who was the first?” I asked.

“A fellow working in the chemical lab up at the hospital. This morning he was complaining that he couldn’t find anyone to share some nice rooms he’d discovered—they were too expensive for him alone.”

“By Jove!” I exclaimed. “If he really wants someone to share the rooms and the cost, I’m just the man. I’d much rather have a roommate than live alone.”

Stamford gave me a rather odd look over his wineglass. “You don’t know Sherlock Holmes yet,” he said. “You might not find him the easiest person to live with.”

“Why? What’s wrong with him?”

“Oh, nothing exactly wrong. He’s just a bit unusual in his ideas—an enthusiast in certain branches of science. As far as I know, he’s quite a decent fellow.”

“A medical student, I suppose?” I asked.

“No, I don’t think so. I’m not sure what he plans to do. He knows a lot about anatomy and he’s an excellent chemist, but as far as I know, he’s never taken any formal medical courses. His studies are pretty irregular and eccentric, but he’s gathered a lot of odd knowledge that would surprise his professors.”

“Did you never ask him what he’s aiming for?” I said.

“No. He’s not easy to draw out, though he can talk freely enough when he feels like it.”

“I’d like to meet him,” I said. “If I’m going to share rooms with someone, I’d prefer a man with quiet, studious habits. I’m not strong enough yet to handle much noise or excitement. I had enough of both in Afghanistan to last me a lifetime. How can I meet this friend of yours?”

“He’s sure to be at the lab,” said Stamford. “He either stays away for weeks or works there from morning till night. If you like, we can go there together after lunch.”

“Certainly,” I said, and our conversation moved on to other topics.

As we headed to the hospital after leaving the Holborn, Stamford told me a few more details about the man I was thinking of taking as a roommate.

“You can’t blame me if you don’t get along with him,” he said. “I only know him from running into him now and then in the lab. You suggested this arrangement, so don’t hold me responsible.”

“If we don’t get along, it’ll be easy enough to part ways,” I replied. “But honestly, Stamford,” I added, studying him closely, “it sounds like you have a reason for washing your hands of the matter. Is this man’s temper that bad, or what? Don’t beat around the bush.”

“It’s hard to put into words,” he said with a laugh. “Holmes is a bit too scientific for my taste—almost cold-blooded. I can imagine him giving a friend a dose of the newest vegetable alkaloid—not out of malice, mind you, but purely out of curiosity, just to see what happens. To be fair, I think he’d take it himself just as readily. He’s obsessed with precise, definite knowledge.”

“And that’s quite proper too.”

“Yes, but he takes it too far sometimes. When he starts beating corpses in the dissecting room with a stick, it gets a bit bizarre.”

“Beating the subjects?”

“Yes, to see how much bruising can occur after death. I saw him doing it with my own eyes.”