## Chapter 1 — Mr. Sherlock Holmes

In 1878 I earned my Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of London, then went to Netley to complete the required course for army surgeons. When my training was finished, I was assigned to the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers as Assistant Surgeon. The regiment was stationed in India at the time, and before I could join them, the second Afghan war had already begun. When I landed in Bombay, I learned that my corps had advanced through the passes and was already deep in enemy territory. I followed, along with many other officers in the same situation, and managed to reach Candahar safely. There I found my regiment and immediately began my new duties.

The campaign brought honors and promotions to many, but for me it brought only misfortune and disaster. I was transferred from my brigade and attached to the Berkshires, with whom I served at the disastrous battle of Maiwand. There I was shot in the shoulder by a Jezail bullet that shattered the bone and grazed the subclavian artery. I would have fallen into the hands of the murderous Ghazis if not for the courage and loyalty of my orderly, Murray, who threw me across a packhorse and managed to bring me safely back to the British lines.

Exhausted by pain and weakened by the long hardships I had endured, I was moved with a large group of wounded men to the base hospital at Peshawar. There I began to recover, and soon I was well enough to walk around the wards and even sit for a while on the verandah. Then I was struck down by enteric fever, that curse of our Indian territories. For months my life was despaired of, and when I finally regained consciousness and began to recover, I was so weak and thin that a medical board decided I must be sent back to England immediately. I was put on the troopship *Orontes* and landed a month later at Portsmouth jetty, my health permanently ruined but with permission from a fatherly government to spend the next nine months trying to improve it.

I had no family in England, so I was as free as air—or at least as free as a man can be on an income of eleven shillings and sixpence a day. In that situation, I naturally drifted to London, that great cesspool where all the idlers and wanderers of the Empire inevitably end up. I stayed for some time at a private hotel in the Strand, living a dull and comfortless life and spending money far more freely than I should have. My finances became so alarming that I soon realized I had to either leave the city and live cheaply in the countryside or completely change my way of life. I chose the latter and decided to leave the hotel and find a simpler, cheaper place to live.

On the very day I made that decision, I was standing at the Criterion Bar when someone tapped me on the shoulder. Turning around, I saw young Stamford, who had been a dresser under me at Barts. Seeing a familiar face in the vast wilderness of London was a real pleasure for a lonely man. In those days, Stamford had never been a close friend, but now I greeted him warmly, and he seemed just as pleased to see me. Delighted, I invited him to lunch with me at the Holborn, and we set off together in a hansom cab.

“What have you been doing with yourself, Watson?” he asked in open amazement as we rattled through the crowded London streets. “You’re as thin as a stick and as brown as a nut.”

I gave him a brief account of my adventures, and I had just finished as we reached our destination.

“Poor devil!” he said sympathetically after hearing about my troubles. “What are you doing now?”

“Looking for lodgings,” I replied. “Trying to figure out whether it’s possible to find comfortable rooms at a reasonable price.”

“That’s funny,” said my companion. “You’re the second person today who’s said that to me.”

“And who was the first?” I asked.

“A fellow working in the chemical lab up at the hospital. This morning he was complaining that he couldn’t find anyone to share some nice rooms he’d discovered—they were too expensive for him alone.”

“By Jove!” I exclaimed. “If he really wants someone to share the rooms and the cost, I’m just the man. I’d much rather have a roommate than live alone.”

Stamford gave me a rather odd look over his wineglass. “You don’t know Sherlock Holmes yet,” he said. “You might not find him the easiest person to live with.”

“Why? What’s wrong with him?”

“Oh, nothing exactly wrong. He’s just a bit unusual in his ideas—an enthusiast in certain branches of science. As far as I know, he’s quite a decent fellow.”

“A medical student, I suppose?” I asked.

“No, I don’t think so. I’m not sure what he plans to do. He knows a lot about anatomy and he’s an excellent chemist, but as far as I know, he’s never taken any formal medical courses. His studies are pretty irregular and eccentric, but he’s gathered a lot of odd knowledge that would surprise his professors.”

“Did you never ask him what he’s aiming for?” I said.

“No. He’s not easy to draw out, though he can talk freely enough when he feels like it.”

“I’d like to meet him,” I said. “If I’m going to share rooms with someone, I’d prefer a man with quiet, studious habits. I’m not strong enough yet to handle much noise or excitement. I had enough of both in Afghanistan to last me a lifetime. How can I meet this friend of yours?”

“He’s sure to be at the lab,” said Stamford. “He either stays away for weeks or works there from morning till night. If you like, we can go there together after lunch.”

“Certainly,” I said, and our conversation moved on to other topics.

As we headed to the hospital after leaving the Holborn, Stamford told me a few more details about the man I was thinking of taking as a roommate.

“You can’t blame me if you don’t get along with him,” he said. “I only know him from running into him now and then in the lab. You suggested this arrangement, so don’t hold me responsible.”

“If we don’t get along, it’ll be easy enough to part ways,” I replied. “But honestly, Stamford,” I added, studying him closely, “it sounds like you have a reason for washing your hands of the matter. Is this man’s temper that bad, is it not? Don’t evade the question.”

“It’s hard to put into words,” he said with a laugh. “Holmes is a bit too scientific for my taste—almost cold-blooded. I can imagine him giving a friend a dose of the newest vegetable alkaloid—not out of malice, mind you, but purely out of curiosity, just to see what happens. To be fair, I think he’d take it himself just as readily. He’s obsessed with precise, definite knowledge.”

“And that’s quite proper too.”

“Yes, but he takes it too far sometimes. When he starts beating corpses in the dissecting room with a stick, it gets a bit bizarre.”

“Beating the subjects?”

“Yes, to see how much bruising can occur after death. I saw him doing it with my own eyes.”


“And you say he isn’t a medical student?”

“No. Heaven only knows what he’s studying. But here we are—you can judge for yourself.” As he spoke, we turned down a narrow lane and entered a small side door leading into one of the hospital’s wings. I knew the place well, so I needed no guide as we climbed the cold stone staircase and walked down a long corridor lined with whitewashed walls and dull-colored doors. Near the far end, a low arched passage branched off toward the chemical laboratory.

It was a tall room, lined and cluttered with countless bottles. Broad, low tables stood about, covered with retorts, test tubes, and small Bunsen burners with their flickering blue flames. Only one student was there, bent over a distant table and completely absorbed in his work. When he heard our footsteps, he turned, sprang up, and cried out in delight. “I’ve found it! I’ve found it!” he shouted to my companion, running toward us with a test tube in his hand. “I’ve discovered a reagent that reacts only with hemoglobin and nothing else.” He looked as thrilled as if he had struck gold.

“Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Stamford, introducing us.

“How do you do?” said Holmes warmly, gripping my hand with surprising strength. “You’ve been in Afghanistan, I see.”

“How on earth did you know that?” I asked, astonished.

“Never mind,” he said, chuckling to himself. “The real question is about hemoglobin. You understand the importance of my discovery, don’t you?”

“It’s interesting from a chemical point of view,” I said, “but practically—”

“Practically, it’s the greatest forensic discovery in years! Don’t you see? It gives us a foolproof test for bloodstains. Come here!” He seized my sleeve excitedly and drew me to the table where he had been working. “Let’s have some fresh blood,” he said, pricking his finger with a long needle and drawing a drop into a pipette. “Now I’ll add this tiny amount of blood to a liter of water. You see, it looks just like clear water—the proportion of blood is no more than one in a million. But I’m sure we’ll still get the reaction.” As he spoke, he dropped in a few white crystals and added some clear liquid. Instantly, the mixture turned a dull mahogany color, and a brownish powder settled at the bottom of the glass jar.

“Ha! Ha!” he cried, clapping his hands and beaming like a child with a new toy. “What do you think of that?”

“It seems to be a very sensitive test,” I said.

“Beautiful! Beautiful! The old guaiacum test was clumsy and unreliable. And the microscopic test for blood cells is useless if the stains are even a few hours old. But this works whether the blood is fresh or ancient. If it had existed earlier, hundreds of murderers would have paid for their crimes long ago.”

“Really?” I murmured.

“Criminal cases often hinge on that single issue. A man is suspected months after the crime. His clothes are examined, and brown stains are found. Are they blood, mud, rust, fruit, or something else? That question has baffled experts for years—because there was no reliable test. Now, with the Sherlock Holmes test, there’ll be no more doubt.”

His eyes sparkled as he spoke, and he placed a hand over his heart, bowing as if to an imaginary audience applauding him.

“Congratulations,” I said, genuinely surprised at his excitement.

“Take the case of Von Bischoff at Frankfort last year. He would certainly have been hanged if this test had existed. Then there was Mason of Bradford, the notorious Müller, Lefevre of Montpellier, and Samson of New Orleans. I could name twenty cases where it would have been decisive.”

“You’re like a walking crime calendar,” said Stamford, laughing. “You should start a journal—call it *The Police News of the Past*.”

“It might make quite interesting reading,” said Sherlock Holmes, sticking a small piece of plaster over the prick on his finger. “I have to be careful,” he added with a smile, turning to me, “since I handle poisons quite a bit.” He held out his hand, and I saw it was mottled with bits of plaster and stained by strong acids.

“We came here on business,” said Stamford, sitting on a tall three-legged stool and pushing another toward me with his foot. “My friend here is looking for a place to live, and since you’ve been complaining that you can’t find anyone to share rooms with, I thought I’d introduce you two.”

Sherlock Holmes seemed genuinely pleased at the idea of sharing rooms with me.
“I’ve got my eye on a suite in Baker Street,” he said. “It would suit us perfectly. You don’t mind the smell of strong tobacco, do you?”

“I always smoke 'ship’s' myself.” I replied.

“Good. I usually have chemicals about and sometimes run experiments. Would that bother you?”

“Not at all.”

“Let’s see—what other faults do I have? I get depressed sometimes and don’t say a word for days. Don’t think I’m being rude when that happens. Just leave me alone and I’ll be fine soon enough. Now, what about you? It’s best for two people to know each other’s worst habits before they start living together.”

I laughed at this interrogation. “I keep a bull pup,” I said, “and I can’t stand noise because my nerves are shaky. I get up at all sorts of ridiculous hours, and I’m extremely lazy. I have other bad habits when I’m healthy, but those are the main ones just now.”

“Do you count violin playing as one of those noises?” he asked, a little anxiously.

“That depends on the player,” I said. “A well-played violin is heavenly—but a badly played one—”

“Oh, that’s fine then,” he said with a cheerful laugh. “I think we can call it settled—assuming the rooms suit you.”

“When shall we see them?”

“Meet me here at noon tomorrow,” he said. “We’ll go together and arrange everything.”

“Perfect—noon exactly,” I said, shaking his hand.

We left him working among his chemicals and walked together toward my hotel.

“By the way,” I suddenly asked, stopping and turning to Stamford, “how on earth did he know I’d just come from Afghanistan?”

My companion smiled mysteriously. “That’s just one of his quirks,” he said. “Plenty of people have wondered how he figures things out.”

“Oh, so it’s a mystery, is it?” I said, rubbing my hands. “That makes it all the more interesting. I’m really grateful you introduced us. ‘The proper study of mankind is man,’ you know.”

“Then you’d better study him,” said Stamford as he said goodbye. “You’ll find he’s quite a puzzle. I’d bet he’ll learn more about you than you will about him. Goodbye.”

“Goodbye,” I replied, and strolled back to my hotel, deeply intrigued by my new acquaintance.

## Chapter 2 — The Science of Deduction

We met the next day as planned and went to look at the rooms at No. 221B Baker Street, the ones he had mentioned before. They consisted of two comfortable bedrooms and a large, bright sitting room, pleasantly furnished and lit by two wide windows. The place was so appealing in every way, and the rent seemed so reasonable when divided between us, that we agreed on the spot and moved in immediately. That same evening I brought my things over from the hotel, and the next morning Sherlock Holmes arrived with several boxes and suitcases. For a day or two we were busy unpacking and arranging our belongings as best we could. Once that was done, we began to settle in and grow accustomed to our new surroundings.

Holmes was not a difficult man to live with. He was quiet and had very regular habits. He was rarely up after ten at night, and by the time I rose in the morning, he had already eaten breakfast and gone out. Sometimes he spent the day in the chemical laboratory, sometimes in the dissecting rooms, and occasionally he went on long walks that seemed to take him into the roughest parts of the City. Nothing could match his energy when he was in a working mood; but every so often he would fall into a sort of reaction, lying on the sofa in the sitting room for days at a time, hardly speaking or moving from morning to night. At such times, I noticed a dreamy, vacant look in his eyes that might have made me suspect drug use—if his overall temperance and cleanliness hadn’t made that impossible.

As the weeks passed, my interest in him—and my curiosity about his aims in life—grew steadily stronger. His appearance alone would have caught anyone’s attention. He was a little over six feet tall, but so thin that he seemed even taller. His eyes were sharp and piercing, except during those spells of lethargy I’ve mentioned. His thin, hawk-like nose gave his whole face an air of alertness and determination. His chin was prominent and square, the kind that marks a man of resolve. His hands were always stained with ink and chemicals, yet he had an incredibly delicate touch, as I often noticed when I watched him handle his fragile scientific instruments.

You may think me an incurable busybody when I admit how much this man intrigued me, and how often I tried to break through the secrecy he maintained about himself. But before you judge, remember how empty my life was at that time and how little there was to occupy my mind. My health kept me indoors unless the weather was unusually mild, and I had no friends who came to visit or break the monotony of my days. Under those circumstances, I welcomed the small mystery surrounding my companion and spent much of my time trying to solve it.

He wasn’t studying medicine; he had confirmed Stamford’s opinion on that point himself. Nor did he seem to be pursuing any course of study that might lead to a science degree or any other recognized qualification that would open doors in the academic world. Yet his enthusiasm for certain subjects was remarkable, and within his eccentric range, his knowledge was so detailed and extensive that his observations often astonished me. Surely no one would work so hard or know so many precise facts unless he had a definite purpose in mind. Casual readers rarely have such exact knowledge. No one fills his mind with trivial details without a solid reason.

His ignorance was as striking as his knowledge. He seemed to know almost nothing about current literature, philosophy, or politics. When I once quoted Thomas Carlyle, he asked in complete innocence who Carlyle was and what he had done. My astonishment peaked when I discovered by chance that he didn’t know the Copernican theory or the layout of the Solar System. That any educated person in the nineteenth century could be unaware that the Earth orbits the sun seemed so incredible to me that I could hardly believe it.

“You look surprised,” he said with a smile at my expression. “Now that I know it, I’ll do my best to forget it.”

“To forget it?” I exclaimed.

“You see,” he explained, “I think a man’s brain is like a small empty attic. You have to choose what furniture to put in it. A fool fills it with all sorts of junk he comes across, so the useful knowledge gets crowded out or mixed up with everything else until he can’t find what he needs. The skilled worker, on the other hand, is very careful about what he stores there. He keeps only the tools that help him do his job—but plenty of those—and all in perfect order. It’s a mistake to think that the attic has elastic walls and can stretch endlessly. Believe me, there comes a time when every new piece of knowledge means forgetting something you already knew. So it’s vital not to let useless facts push out the useful ones.”

“But the Solar System!” I protested.

“What difference does that make to me?” he said impatiently. “You say we go around the sun. If we went around the moon instead, it wouldn’t make the slightest difference to me or my work.”

I was about to ask what that work might be, but something in his manner told me the question wouldn’t be welcome. Still, I thought over our short conversation and tried to draw my own conclusions. He said he would learn nothing that didn’t relate to his purpose. Therefore, all his knowledge must be useful to him in some way. I went over in my mind all the areas where he had shown unusual expertise. I even took a pencil and made a list. I couldn’t help smiling when I finished it. It read as follows—

SHERLOCK HOLMES—his limits.
1 - Knowledge of literature — none.
2 - Philosophy — none.
3 - Astronomy — none.
4 - Politics — weak.
5 - Botany — mixed. Very knowledgeable about belladonna, opium, and poisons in general. Knows nothing about practical gardening.
6 - Geology — practical, but limited. Can instantly tell one type of soil from another. After walks, he’s pointed out stains on his trousers and told me, by their color and texture, exactly which part of London they came from.
7 - Chemistry — expert.
8 - Anatomy — accurate, but unorganized.
9 - Sensational literature — extensive. Seems to know every detail of every crime or horror committed in the century.
10 - Plays the violin well.
11 - Skilled at singlestick, boxing, and fencing.
12 - Has solid, practical knowledge of British law.

When I had gotten that far with my list, I threw it into the fire in frustration.
“If I can only figure out what this man is aiming for by connecting all these skills and finding a profession that requires them all,” I said to myself, “I might as well give up now.”

I see I mentioned his violin playing earlier. It was remarkable, though just as eccentric as everything else about him. I knew he could play difficult pieces, because at my request he had played some of Mendelssohn’s songs and other favorites. But when left alone, he rarely played any recognizable tune. In the evenings he would lean back in his armchair, close his eyes, and scrape absently at the violin resting across his knee. Sometimes the sounds were deep and melancholy; other times they were strange and lively. Clearly, they reflected whatever he was thinking about. Whether the music helped his thoughts or was just a passing whim, I could never tell. I might have protested against these irritating solos if he didn’t usually end them with a quick run of my favorite tunes, as if to make up for testing my patience.

For the first week or so we had no visitors, and I began to think my companion was as friendless as I was. Soon, however, I found that he had plenty of acquaintances from all sorts of backgrounds. One was a small, sallow, rat-faced man with dark eyes, introduced to me as Mr. Lestrade, who came three or four times in a single week. One morning a well-dressed young woman called and stayed for half an hour or more. That same afternoon, a gray-haired, shabby man who looked like a Jewish peddler arrived, clearly agitated, followed closely by a sloppily dressed elderly woman. On another day, an old white-haired gentleman came to see him; on another, a railway porter in his velvet uniform. Whenever any of these odd visitors appeared, Sherlock Holmes would ask to use the sitting room, and I would retreat to my bedroom. He always apologized for the inconvenience.
“I have to use this room for business,” he said. “These people are my clients.”

Again, I had a chance to ask him directly what his work was, and again my sense of courtesy stopped me from pressing him. I assumed he had some strong reason for keeping it private—but he soon cleared that up by bringing up the subject himself.

It was on March 4th—I remember the date clearly—that I got up earlier than usual and found Sherlock Holmes still at breakfast. The landlady was so used to my late hours that she hadn’t set my place or made my coffee. Irritated, I rang the bell and told her sharply that I was ready. Then I picked up a magazine from the table to pass the time while my companion quietly ate his toast. One of the articles had a pencil mark at the title, so I naturally started reading it.

It had the rather grand title “The Book of Life,” and it tried to show how much an observant person could learn through careful, systematic study of everything around them. It struck me as a strange mix of insight and nonsense. The reasoning was sharp and logical, but the conclusions seemed far-fetched and exaggerated. The writer claimed that from a fleeting expression, a twitch of a muscle, or a glance of an eye, one could read a person’s deepest thoughts. According to him, deceit was impossible for anyone trained in observation and analysis. His conclusions, he said, were as certain as mathematical proofs. To the untrained eye, his results would seem so astonishing that, until one understood the process behind them, he might appear almost supernatural.

“From a drop of water,” the writer said, “a logician could infer the existence of an Atlantic or a Niagara without ever having seen or heard of either. All life is a great chain, and once you’re shown a single link, you can understand the whole. Like any art, the Science of Deduction and Analysis can only be mastered through long and patient study—and even a lifetime isn’t enough to reach its highest level. Before tackling the moral and mental sides of the subject, which are the hardest, the student should start with simpler problems. When meeting another person, he should learn to recognize at a glance that person’s history and occupation. Childish as this exercise might seem, it sharpens observation and teaches where and how to look. A man’s fingernails, coat sleeve, boots, trouser knees, calluses on his forefinger and thumb, facial expression, and shirt cuffs—each of these reveals his trade. That all of them together could fail to inform a skilled observer is almost impossible.”

“What absolute nonsense!” I exclaimed, slapping the magazine down on the table. “I’ve never read such rubbish in my life.”

“What is it?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

“This article,” I said, pointing at it with my egg spoon as I sat down to breakfast. “I see you’ve read it—you’ve marked it up. I’ll admit it’s cleverly written, but it really annoys me. It’s obviously the theory of some armchair philosopher who comes up with neat little paradoxes while sitting comfortably in his study. It’s totally impractical. I’d love to see him stuck in a third-class carriage on the Underground and asked to identify the occupations of all his fellow passengers. I’d bet a thousand to one he couldn’t do it.”

“You’d lose your money,” Sherlock Holmes said calmly. “As for the article, I wrote it myself.”

“You!”

“Yes. I have a knack for both observation and deduction. The theories I explain there—those you find so far-fetched—are actually very practical. So practical, in fact, that I make my living from them.”

“How?” I asked, unable to help myself.

“Well, I’ve got a profession of my own. I suppose I’m the only one in the world who does it. I’m a consulting detective—if you can imagine what that means. Here in London, there are plenty of government detectives and plenty of private ones. When those men get stuck, they come to me, and I help them find the right trail. They lay all the evidence before me, and with my knowledge of criminal history, I can usually set them straight. There’s a strong family resemblance among crimes, and if you know the details of a thousand, it’s strange if you can’t solve the thousand and first. Lestrade, for instance, is a well-known detective. He got himself tangled up in a forgery case recently, and that’s what brought him here.”

“And the others?”

“They’re mostly sent by private inquiry agencies. They’re all people in some kind of trouble who want a bit of clarity. They tell me their story, I give them my thoughts, and then I take my fee.”

“But you’re telling me,” I said, “that you can solve a mystery without even leaving your room—something others can’t work out even after seeing all the evidence themselves?”

“Exactly. I have a kind of instinct for it. Every now and then a case comes along that’s a bit more complicated, and then I have to go out and see things for myself. You see, I’ve gathered a lot of specialized knowledge that I apply to each problem, and it makes things go remarkably smoothly. The rules of deduction I laid out in that article—the same ones that irritated you—are invaluable to me in practice. Observation is second nature to me. You seemed surprised when I told you, the first time we met, that you’d come from Afghanistan.”

“You must have been told,” I said.

“Not at all. I *knew* you came from Afghanistan. My mind runs through the reasoning so quickly from long habit that I reach the conclusion without noticing the steps. But the steps are there. My thought process went like this: ‘Here’s a gentleman with a medical look, but also the air of a military man. So, an army doctor. He’s just come from the tropics—his face is dark, but that’s not his natural skin tone, because his wrists are pale. He’s been through hardship and illness, as his worn face clearly shows. His left arm has been injured—he holds it stiffly and awkwardly. Where in the tropics could a British army doctor have faced hardship and been wounded in the arm? Obviously Afghanistan.’ The whole line of thought took me less than a second. I then said you’d come from Afghanistan, and you were astonished.”

“When you explain it, it sounds simple enough,” I said, smiling. “You remind me of Edgar Allan Poe’s Dupin. I didn’t think people like that existed outside of fiction.”

Sherlock Holmes stood up and lit his pipe. “I’m sure you think you’re complimenting me by comparing me to Dupin,” he said. “But in my opinion, Dupin was a rather poor specimen. That little trick of his—interrupting his friends’ thoughts with a perfectly timed remark after fifteen minutes of silence—is flashy but shallow. He had some analytical talent, no doubt, but he was nowhere near the phenomenon Poe made him out to be.”

“Have you read Gaboriau’s work?” I asked. “Does Lecoq match your idea of a detective?”

Sherlock Holmes gave a sarcastic sniff. “Lecoq was a hopeless bungler,” he said sharply. “His only redeeming quality was his energy. That book actually made me feel ill. The problem was to identify an unknown prisoner. I could have done it in twenty-four hours. Lecoq took six months or so. That story could be used as a textbook for detectives—to show them what *not* to do.”

I felt rather offended that he spoke so dismissively of two characters I admired. I walked to the window and looked out at the busy street. “This man may be clever,” I thought, “but he’s certainly full of himself.”

“There are no crimes or criminals these days,” he said irritably. “What’s the point of having brains in our profession? I know I have it in me to make my name famous. No man alive—or dead—has ever brought as much study and natural talent to solving crime as I have. And what’s the result? There’s no crime to solve—or at best, some clumsy villainy with motives so obvious that even a Scotland Yard inspector can see through them.”

Still irritated by his boastful tone, I decided to change the subject.

“I wonder what that man’s looking for,” I said, pointing to a sturdy, plainly dressed man walking slowly down the opposite side of the street, anxiously checking the house numbers. He carried a large blue envelope and clearly had a message to deliver.

“You mean the retired sergeant of Marines,” said Sherlock Holmes.

“Show-off,” I thought. “He knows I can’t possibly check that.”

The thought had barely crossed my mind when the man we were watching spotted our house number and hurried across the street. We heard a loud knock, a deep voice below, and heavy footsteps coming up the stairs.
“For Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” he said as he stepped into the room and handed my friend the letter.

This was a perfect chance to humble him a bit. He had no idea of that when he made his careless guess.

“May I ask, my boy,” I said in my most pleasant tone, “what’s your job?”

“Commissionaire, sir,” he replied gruffly. “My uniform’s out for repairs.”

“And before that?” I asked, giving my companion a slightly teasing look.

“Sergeant, sir—Royal Marine Light Infantry, sir. No reply? Very good, sir.”

He snapped his heels together, saluted smartly, and left.


I admit I was quite startled by this new proof of how practical my companion’s theories were. My respect for his powers of analysis rose dramatically. Still, a faint suspicion lingered that the whole thing might have been staged to impress me—though I couldn’t imagine why he’d bother. When I looked at him, he had finished reading the note, and his eyes had that blank, unfocused look that meant he was deep in thought.

“How on earth did you figure that out?” I asked.

“Figure what out?” he said irritably.


“That the man was a retired sergeant of Marines.”

“I don’t have time for trifles,” he said curtly. Then, with a quick smile, “Sorry—that was rude. You interrupted my train of thought, but perhaps that’s just as well. So you really didn’t notice that the man was a Marine sergeant?”

“No, not at all.”

“It was easier to see than to explain. If someone asked you to prove that two plus two equals four, you might struggle to justify it, even though you’re certain it’s true. From across the street I could see a large blue anchor tattooed on the back of his hand—that suggested a seafaring life. But he had a military posture and regulation side whiskers, which pointed to the Marines. He carried himself with self-importance and an air of command. You must have noticed the way he held his head and swung his cane. A steady, respectable, middle-aged man, too. All those details led me to conclude he had been a sergeant.”

## Chapter 3 — The Lauriston Gardens Mystery

“Remarkable!” I exclaimed.

“Ordinary,” said Holmes, though I could tell from his expression that my amazement pleased him. “I said just now there were no criminals about. It seems I was wrong—look at this!” He tossed me the note the messenger had brought.

“Good heavens,” I cried after glancing at it, “this is dreadful!”

“It does seem a little out of the ordinary,” he said calmly. “Would you mind reading it aloud?”

This is the letter I read to him:

MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,—
>
There’s been a bad business during the night at 3, Lauriston Gardens, off the Brixton Road. Our patrol saw a light there around two in the morning, and since the house was empty, suspected something was wrong. He found the door open, and in the front room—bare of furniture—he discovered the body of a well-dressed gentleman with cards in his pocket bearing the name “Enoch J. Drebber, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.” There’s been no robbery, and no sign of how the man died. There are bloodstains in the room, but no wound on the body. We can’t explain how he got into the empty house; the whole thing is baffling. If you can come by before noon, you’ll find me there. I’ve left everything *in statu quo* until I hear from you. If you can’t come, I’ll send more details, and would be very grateful for your opinion.
>
Yours faithfully,
TOBIAS GREGSON.

“Gregson is the sharpest of the Scotland Yard men,” Holmes remarked. “He and Lestrade are the best of a bad bunch. Both quick and energetic—but painfully conventional. They can’t stand each other either, jealous as rival actors. If both of them are on this case, it should be entertaining.”

I was amazed at how calmly he spoke. “Surely there’s no time to lose,” I said. “Shall I call a cab?”

“I’m not sure I’ll go. I’m the laziest devil alive—when the mood’s on me. Though I can be energetic enough at times.”

“But this is exactly the kind of case you’ve been waiting for!”

“My dear fellow, what difference does it make to me? Even if I solve the whole thing, Gregson, Lestrade, and company will take all the credit. That’s what comes of being unofficial.”

“But he asks for your help.”

“Yes. He knows I’m better than he is, and admits it privately—but he’d bite his tongue off before saying so to anyone else. Still, we might as well go take a look. I’ll work it out on my own terms. If nothing else, I’ll get a laugh out of it. Come on!”

He threw on his overcoat and moved about briskly, clearly energized now instead of lethargic.

“Get your hat,” he said.

“You want me to come?”

“Yes, unless you’ve got something better to do.” A minute later we were in a hansom cab, racing toward Brixton Road.

It was a foggy, overcast morning. A dull brown haze hung over the rooftops, like a reflection of the muddy streets below. My companion was in high spirits, chatting cheerfully about Cremona violins and the difference between a Stradivarius and an Amati. I stayed silent—both the dreary weather and the grim business ahead weighed on me.

“You don’t seem very focused on the case,” I said at last, interrupting his talk about violins.

“No data yet,” he replied. “It’s a big mistake to form theories before you have evidence. It skews your judgment.”

“You’ll have your data soon,” I said, pointing ahead. “That’s Brixton Road—and unless I’m mistaken, that’s the house.”

“So it is. Stop, driver, stop!” We were still about a hundred yards away, but he insisted we get out and walk the rest of the way.

Number 3, Lauriston Gardens had a gloomy, almost threatening look. It was one of four houses set a little back from the street—two occupied, two empty. The vacant ones stared out with three rows of blank, dreary windows, except where a “To Let” sign clung to the grimy glass. Each house had a small front garden, sparsely dotted with unhealthy-looking plants, separated from the street by a narrow path of yellowish clay and gravel. The ground was soaked from the night’s rain. A three-foot brick wall topped with wooden rails enclosed the garden, and leaning against it stood a sturdy police constable, surrounded by a small group of onlookers craning their necks in vain to glimpse what was happening inside.

I had assumed Sherlock Holmes would immediately rush into the house and start investigating the mystery. Nothing could have been further from his actual plan. With a casual air that seemed almost affected under the circumstances, he strolled up and down the pavement, staring absently at the ground, the sky, the houses across the street, and the line of railings. When he finished this odd inspection, he slowly walked down the path—or rather along the strip of grass beside it—keeping his eyes fixed on the ground. Twice he stopped. Once he smiled and let out a small exclamation of satisfaction.

There were many footprints in the wet, clay-like soil, but since the police had been walking back and forth over it, I couldn’t imagine how my companion expected to learn anything from it. Still, I had seen such remarkable proof of his sharp perception that I had no doubt he was noticing plenty that I could not.

At the door we were met by a tall, pale, flaxen-haired man with a notebook in his hand. He rushed forward and shook Holmes’s hand warmly. “It’s very kind of you to come,” he said. “I’ve had everything left untouched.”

“Except that,” my friend replied, pointing to the pathway. “If a herd of buffalo had passed through, it couldn’t look worse. But I suppose you drew your conclusions, Gregson, before you allowed this.”

“I’ve had so much to do inside,” the detective said evasively. “My colleague, Mr. Lestrade, is here. I was counting on him to handle that.”

Holmes glanced at me and raised his eyebrows with a hint of sarcasm. “With two men like you and Lestrade on the case, there can’t be much left for anyone else to discover,” he said.

Gregson rubbed his hands, clearly pleased with himself. “I think we’ve done all that can be done,” he said. “It’s a strange case, though, and I know you enjoy that sort of thing.”

“You didn’t come here in a cab?” asked Holmes.

“No, sir.”

“Nor Lestrade?”

“No, sir.”

“Then let’s go look at the room.” With that abrupt comment, he strode into the house, followed by Gregson, whose face showed his surprise.

A short, bare, dusty hallway led to the kitchen and back rooms. Two doors opened off it, one on each side. One had clearly been closed for many weeks. The other led into the dining room, where the mysterious event had taken place. Holmes walked in, and I followed, feeling that quiet heaviness of heart that death always brings.

It was a large square room, made to look even larger by its complete lack of furniture. The walls were covered with cheap, flashy wallpaper, blotched with mildew and peeling in long strips that revealed the yellow plaster underneath. Opposite the door stood a showy fireplace with a mantelpiece of imitation white marble. On one corner of it was the stump of a red wax candle. The single window was so dirty that the light came through dim and gray, dulled even further by the thick layer of dust covering everything.

I noticed all these details later. At first, my attention was fixed on the single grim, motionless figure lying on the floor, its blank, sightless eyes staring up at the stained ceiling. The body was that of a man about forty-three or forty-four years old, of medium height and broad build, with short, curly black hair and a rough stubbly beard. He wore a heavy broadcloth frock coat and vest, light-colored trousers, and a spotless collar and cuffs. A well-brushed top hat lay neatly on the floor beside him. His hands were clenched, his arms flung wide, and his legs twisted together as if he had died in a terrible struggle. His rigid face bore an expression of horror—and, it seemed to me, of hatred—unlike anything I had ever seen on a human face. The dreadful contortion, along with his low forehead, blunt nose, and projecting jaw, gave him a strangely ape-like look, made even worse by the twisted posture of his body. I have seen death in many forms, but never one more horrifying than in that dark, grimy room overlooking one of the main roads of suburban London.

Lestrade, lean and ferret-like as ever, stood by the doorway and greeted Holmes and me.

“This one’s going to cause a stir, sir,” he said. “It’s the strangest thing I’ve seen, and I’m no rookie.”

“There’s no clue?” asked Gregson.

“None at all,” said Lestrade.

Sherlock Holmes knelt beside the body and examined it closely. “You’re sure there’s no wound?” he asked, pointing to the many drops and splashes of blood scattered around.

“Positive!” both detectives exclaimed.

“Then this blood must belong to someone else—probably the killer, if it was murder. It reminds me of the case of Van Jansen’s death in Utrecht in 1834. Do you remember that one, Gregson?”

“No, sir.”

“You should read about it. There’s nothing new under the sun—it’s all happened before.”

As he spoke, his quick fingers moved everywhere—feeling, pressing, unbuttoning, examining—while his eyes had that distant, thoughtful look I had noticed before. He worked so quickly that one might not realize how detailed his inspection really was. At last, he sniffed the dead man’s lips and then looked at the soles of his polished boots.

“He hasn’t been moved at all?” he asked.

“No more than necessary for our examination.”

“You can take him to the mortuary now,” Holmes said. “There’s nothing more to learn here.”

Gregson had a stretcher and four men ready. At his call they entered, lifted the body, and carried it out. As they raised him, a ring slipped off and rolled across the floor. Lestrade snatched it up and stared at it in confusion.

“There’s been a woman here,” he shouted. “It’s a woman’s wedding ring.”

He held it out on his palm as he spoke. We all gathered around and stared at it. There was no doubt that the simple gold band had once been worn by a bride.

“This makes things more complicated,” said Gregson. “Heaven knows they were complicated enough already.”

“Are you sure it doesn’t make them simpler?” asked Holmes. “We won’t learn anything just by staring at it. What did you find in his pockets?”

“We’ve got everything here,” said Gregson, pointing to a pile of items on one of the bottom steps. “A gold watch, No. 97163, by Barraud of London. A heavy gold Albert chain. A gold ring with a Masonic symbol. A gold pin—bulldog’s head with ruby eyes. A Russian leather card case with cards for Enoch J. Drebber of Cleveland, matching the initials E. J. D. on the linen. No wallet, but loose cash totaling seven pounds thirteen. A pocket edition of Boccaccio’s *Decameron* with the name Joseph Stangerson on the flyleaf. Two letters—one addressed to E. J. Drebber and one to Joseph Stangerson.”

“What address?”

“American Exchange, Strand—to be held until collected. Both from the Guion Steamship Company, about the sailing of their ships from Liverpool. It’s clear this poor man was planning to return to New York.”

“Have you made any inquiries about this man Stangerson?”

“I did that immediately, sir,” said Gregson. “I’ve sent notices to all the newspapers, and one of my men went to the American Exchange, but he hasn’t come back yet.”

“Have you contacted Cleveland?”

“We sent a telegram this morning.”

“How did you word your message?”

“We just described the situation and said we’d appreciate any information that might help.”

“You didn’t ask for details on any point that seemed crucial to you?”

“I asked about Stangerson.”

“Nothing else? Isn’t there any detail the whole case depends on? Won’t you send another telegram?”

“I’ve said all I have to say,” Gregson replied, sounding offended.

Sherlock Holmes chuckled quietly to himself and looked about to comment, when Lestrade—who had been in the front room while we talked in the hall—came back, rubbing his hands together with smug satisfaction.

“Mr. Gregson,” he announced, “I’ve just made a discovery of the highest importance—something that would have been missed if I hadn’t carefully examined the walls.”

His eyes gleamed as he spoke, clearly thrilled to have scored a point against his colleague.

“Come here,” he said, bustling back into the room, which felt less oppressive now that the body had been removed. “Stand right there!”

He struck a match on his boot and held it up to the wall.

“Look at that!” he said triumphantly.

I had already noticed that the wallpaper had come loose in several places. In this particular corner, a large piece had peeled away, leaving a yellow patch of rough plaster. Across that bare space, written in blood-red letters, was a single word—

RACHE.

“What do you make of that?” cried the detective, like a showman displaying his prize. “It was missed because it’s in the darkest corner, and no one thought to look there. The murderer wrote it in his or her own blood. See this smear where it dripped down the wall? That rules out suicide, anyway. Why choose that corner? I’ll tell you. Look at that candle on the mantel. It was lit at the time, and if so, that corner would have been the brightest part of the wall.”

“And what does it mean now that you’ve found it?” asked Gregson, sounding unimpressed.

“Mean? It means the writer was going to spell the woman’s name *Rachel* but was interrupted before finishing. Mark my words—when this case is solved, you’ll find a woman named Rachel is involved. Laugh all you want, Mr. Sherlock Holmes. You may be clever, but the old hound still wins in the end.”

“I must apologize,” said Holmes, who had burst out laughing and clearly ruffled the little man’s pride. “You certainly deserve credit for being the first to find it, and as you say, it looks like it was written by the other person involved in last night’s mystery. I haven’t had a chance to examine this room yet, but with your permission, I’ll do so now.”

As he spoke, he pulled a tape measure and a large round magnifying glass from his pocket. With these tools, he moved silently around the room—sometimes stopping, sometimes kneeling, once even lying flat on the floor. He was so absorbed in his work that he seemed to forget we were there, muttering to himself constantly, a stream of exclamations, sighs, whistles, and little murmurs of encouragement and hope. Watching him, I was irresistibly reminded of a purebred, well-trained foxhound dashing back and forth through the brush, whining with eagerness until it picks up the lost scent.

For more than twenty minutes he continued his investigation, measuring with extreme precision the distances between marks invisible to me, and occasionally applying his tape to the walls in ways I couldn’t understand. At one spot he carefully collected a small pile of gray dust from the floor and sealed it in an envelope. Finally, he examined the word on the wall through his glass, inspecting every letter in minute detail. When he finished, he seemed satisfied and put his tape and glass back in his pocket.

“They say genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains,” he said with a smile. “It’s a poor definition—but it fits detective work.”

Gregson and Lestrade had watched their amateur colleague’s movements with a mix of curiosity and contempt. They clearly didn’t appreciate what I had begun to realize—that every tiny action Sherlock Holmes took was aimed at some specific, practical purpose.

“What do you think of it, sir?” they both asked.

“It would be stealing your credit if I tried to help,” my friend said. “You’re doing so well on your own that it would be a shame for anyone to interfere.” His voice dripped with sarcasm. “If you’ll let me know how your investigation goes,” he went on, “I’ll be happy to help however I can. In the meantime, I’d like to talk to the constable who found the body. Can you give me his name and address?”

Lestrade checked his notebook. “John Rance,” he said. “He’s off duty now. You’ll find him at 46, Audley Court, Kennington Park Gate.”

Holmes jotted down the address.

“Come on, Doctor,” he said. “Let’s go find him. I’ll tell you one thing that might help with the case,” he added, turning to the two detectives. “There’s been a murder, and the killer was a man. He was over six feet tall, in his prime, had small feet for his height, wore coarse square-toed boots, and smoked a Trichinopoly cigar. He came here with his victim in a four-wheeled cab pulled by a horse that had three old shoes and one new one on its front right leg. Most likely, the murderer had a ruddy face, and the fingernails on his right hand were unusually long. Those are just a few clues, but they might help you.”

Lestrade and Gregson exchanged skeptical smiles.

“If this man was murdered, how was it done?” Lestrade asked.

“Poison,” said Sherlock Holmes shortly, striding off. “One more thing, Lestrade,” he added, turning at the door: “‘Rache’ is the German word for ‘revenge,’ so don’t waste time looking for Miss Rachel.”

With that parting shot, he walked away, leaving the two rivals staring after him in astonishment.

## Chapter 4 — What John Rance Had to Tell

It was one o’clock when we left No. 3, Lauriston Gardens. Sherlock Holmes led me to the nearest telegraph office, where he sent a lengthy message. Then he hailed a cab and instructed the driver to take us to the address Lestrade had provided.

“There’s nothing like first-hand evidence,” he said. “In truth, I’ve already formed my conclusions about the case, but we might as well gather every scrap of information we can.”

“You surprise me, Holmes,” I said. “Surely you’re not as certain as you pretend to be about all those details you mentioned.”

“There’s no room for error,” he replied. “The first thing I noticed when I arrived was that a cab had left two ruts close to the curb. We hadn’t had rain for a week until last night, so those deep wheel marks must have been made during the night. I also saw the horse’s hoofprints—one was much sharper than the other three, meaning that hoof had a new shoe. Since the cab was there after the rain began and wasn’t seen there this morning—I have Gregson’s word for that—it must have been there during the night. Therefore, it brought those two men to the house.”

“That seems simple enough,” I said. “But what about the other man’s height?”

“In nine cases out of ten, you can tell a man’s height from the length of his stride. It’s an easy calculation, though I won’t bore you with the numbers. I had this fellow’s stride both in the clay outside and in the dust inside. Then I had a way to check it. When a man writes on a wall, his instinct is to write at eye level. That writing was just over six feet from the ground. It was child’s play.”

“And his age?” I asked.

“Well, if a man can stride four and a half feet without effort, he’s not exactly old and feeble. That was the width of a puddle on the garden path that he clearly stepped over. The man in patent-leather boots went around it, while Square-toes jumped across. There’s no mystery about it. I’m simply applying to everyday life the same principles of observation and deduction I described in that article. Is there anything else that puzzles you?”

“The fingernails and the Trichinopoly,” I said.

“The writing on the wall was done with a man’s forefinger dipped in blood. My magnifying glass showed that the plaster was slightly scratched, which wouldn’t have happened if the man’s nails had been trimmed. I also collected some ash from the floor. It was dark and flaky—the kind produced only by a Trichinopoly cigar. I’ve made a special study of cigar ashes—in fact, I’ve written a monograph on the subject. I flatter myself that I can recognize at a glance the ash of any known brand of cigar or tobacco. It’s details like these that set a skilled detective apart from the Gregson and Lestrade type.”

“And the flushed face?” I asked.

“Ah, that was a bolder guess, though I’m sure I was right. Don’t ask me about that yet—not at this stage of the case.”

I rubbed my forehead. “My head’s spinning,” I said. “The more I think about it, the more confusing it gets. How did those two men—if there were two—get into an empty house? What happened to the cab driver who brought them? How could one man force another to take poison? Where did the blood come from? What was the murderer’s motive, since robbery wasn’t involved? How did the woman’s ring end up there? And above all, why did the second man write the German word RACHE before leaving? I can’t see any way to make all these facts fit together.”

My companion smiled approvingly.

“You’ve summed up the difficulties clearly and well,” he said. “There’s still much we don’t know, though I’ve already made up my mind about the main facts. As for poor Lestrade’s discovery, it was just a trick meant to send the police down the wrong path by suggesting Socialism and secret societies. It wasn’t done by a German. The A, if you noticed, was shaped a bit like a German letter, but a real German always prints in Latin characters. So we can safely say it wasn’t written by one, but by a clumsy imitator who overdid it. It was simply a ruse to mislead the investigation. I’m not going to tell you much more about the case, Doctor. You know how a magician loses all credit once he explains his trick. If I show you too much of my method, you might end up thinking I’m just an ordinary man after all.”

“I’ll never think that,” I said. “You’ve brought detection as close to an exact science as it can ever get in this world.”

He flushed with pleasure at my words and the sincerity of my tone. I had already noticed that he was as sensitive to praise about his craft as any girl might be about her beauty.

“I’ll tell you one more thing,” he said. “Patent-leathers and Square-toes arrived in the same cab. They walked down the path together, friendly enough—probably arm in arm. Inside, they paced the room—or rather, Patent-leathers stood still while Square-toes walked up and down. I could read all that in the dust. And I could see that as he walked, he grew more and more agitated. That’s shown by the increasing length of his strides. He was talking the whole time, working himself up into a fury. Then the tragedy happened. That’s all I know for sure; the rest is theory and conjecture. Still, we have a solid starting point. We’d better hurry—I want to get to Halle’s concert to hear Norman Neruda this afternoon.”

This conversation took place while our cab wound its way through a long stretch of grimy streets and dreary back alleys. In the most dismal of them, our driver suddenly stopped. “That’s Audley Court in there,” he said, pointing to a narrow gap between dull brick walls. “I’ll be here waiting when you come back.”

Audley Court wasn’t a pleasant place. The narrow passage led us into a courtyard paved with stone flags and lined with shabby houses. We picked our way through groups of dirty children and between lines of stained laundry until we reached Number 46. The door had a small brass plate engraved with the name Rance. When we asked after him, we learned the constable was in bed, and we were shown into a small front parlor to wait.

He appeared soon after, looking annoyed at being woken. “I already made my report at the office,” he said.


Holmes took a half-sovereign from his pocket and toyed with it thoughtfully. “We thought we’d like to hear it directly from you,” he said.

“I’ll gladly tell you anything I can,” the constable replied, his eyes fixed on the little gold coin.

“Just tell us everything, in your own words, exactly as it happened.”

Rance sat down on the horsehair sofa and frowned, as if determined not to leave out a single detail.

“I’ll start from the beginning,” he said. “My shift runs from ten at night to six in the morning. At eleven, there was a fight at the White Hart, but apart from that, the beat was quiet. Around one o’clock it started to rain, and I met Harry Murcher—the one with the Holland Grove beat—and we stood talking at the corner of Henrietta Street. A bit after two, maybe a little later, I decided to take a look around and make sure everything was all right down Brixton Road. It was filthy and lonely. I didn’t meet a soul the whole way, though a cab or two passed me. I was strolling along, thinking how nice a hot four of gin would be, when I suddenly saw a glimmer of light in the window of that same house.

“Now, I knew those two houses in Lauriston Gardens were empty because the owner refuses to have the drains fixed, even though the last tenant who lived there died of typhoid fever. So I was shocked to see a light in the window and suspected something was wrong. When I got to the door—”

“You stopped and then walked back to the garden gate,” my companion interrupted. “Why did you do that?”

Rance started violently and stared at Sherlock Holmes in utter amazement.

“Well, that’s true, sir,” he said. “But how you know that, Heaven only knows. You see, when I got up to the door, it was so still and lonely that I thought I’d be better off with someone beside me. I’m not afraid of anything in this world, but I thought maybe it was the man who died of typhoid come back to inspect the drains that killed him. The thought gave me a bit of a turn, so I walked back to the gate to see if I could spot Murcher’s lantern. But there wasn’t any sign of him—or anyone else.”

“There was no one in the street?”

“Not a living soul, sir, not even a dog. Then I pulled myself together, went back, and pushed the door open. Everything was quiet inside, so I went into the room where the light was burning. There was a candle flickering on the mantelpiece—a red wax one—and by its light I saw—”

“Yes, I know what you saw. You walked around the room several times, knelt down by the body, then went through and tried the kitchen door, and then—”

John Rance jumped to his feet, his face showing fear and suspicion. “Where were you hiding to see all that?” he cried. “Seems to me you know a lot more than you should.”

Holmes laughed and tossed his card across the table. “Don’t go arresting me for the murder,” he said. “I’m one of the hounds, not the wolf. Mr. Gregson or Mr. Lestrade will vouch for that. Go on—what did you do next?”

Rance sat back down, still looking puzzled. “I went back to the gate and blew my whistle. That brought Murcher and two others to the spot.”

“Was the street empty then?”

“Well, empty as far as anyone useful goes.”

“What do you mean?”

The constable grinned. “I’ve seen plenty of drunk men in my time,” he said, “but never anyone as outrageously drunk as that fellow. He was at the gate when I came out, leaning against the railings and singing at the top of his lungs about Columbine’s New-fangled Banner, or something like that. He couldn’t stand up, let alone help.”

“What kind of man was he?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

Rance looked slightly annoyed at being sidetracked. “He was a very drunk sort of man,” he said. “He’d have found himself in the station if we hadn’t been so busy.”

“His face—his clothes—didn’t you notice them?” Holmes asked impatiently.

“Of course I noticed them. I had to hold him up—me and Murcher together. He was tall, with a red face, and the lower part of it was wrapped—”

“That’s enough,” Holmes cut in. “What became of him?”

“We had enough to deal with without looking after him,” the policeman said irritably. “I’d bet he found his way home all right.”

“How was he dressed?”

“A brown overcoat.”

“Did he have a whip in his hand?”

“A whip? No.”

“He must have left it behind,” my companion muttered. “You didn’t happen to see or hear a cab after that?”

“No.”

“There’s a half-sovereign for you,” Holmes said, standing up and taking his hat. “I’m afraid, Rance, you’ll never rise in the force. That head of yours should be used for more than decoration. You could have earned your sergeant’s stripes last night. The man you held in your hands is the one who holds the key to this mystery—the man we’re looking for. There’s no point in arguing; I’m telling you that’s the truth. Come along, Doctor.”

We headed to the cab together, leaving our informant doubtful but clearly uneasy.

“The blundering fool,” Holmes said bitterly as we rode back to our lodgings. “Imagine having such incredible luck and not taking advantage of it.”

“I’m still in the dark,” I admitted. “The description of this man does match your idea of the second person in the case. But why would he return to the house after leaving it? Criminals don’t usually do that.”

“The ring, my dear fellow—the ring! That’s what he came back for. If we can’t catch him any other way, we can always use the ring as bait. I’ll get him, Doctor—I’ll bet you two to one that I do. And I have you to thank for it. If you hadn’t come along, I might have skipped the whole thing and missed the most fascinating case I’ve ever seen—a real study in scarlet, eh? Why not borrow a little art jargon? There’s a scarlet thread of murder woven through the colorless fabric of life, and it’s our job to trace it, separate it, and reveal every inch of it. Now, lunch first, then Norman Neruda. Her technique and bowing are brilliant. What’s that little Chopin piece she plays so beautifully? Tra-la-la-lira-lira-lay.”

Leaning back in the cab, this amateur bloodhound sang cheerfully like a lark while I reflected on the complexity of the human mind.

## Chapter 5 — Our Advertisement Brings a Visitor

The morning’s work had been too much for my fragile health, and by afternoon I was completely exhausted. After Holmes left for the concert, I lay down on the sofa, hoping for a few hours of rest. It was useless. My mind was too agitated by the day’s events, and strange thoughts and speculations crowded in. Each time I closed my eyes, I saw the twisted, baboon-like face of the murdered man. The impression it had left on me was so sinister that I could feel only gratitude toward whoever had removed its owner from the world. If ever a human face revealed pure evil, it was that of Enoch J. Drebber of Cleveland. Still, I knew that justice must be done, and that his wickedness could not excuse his killer in the eyes of the law.

The more I thought about it, the more extraordinary Holmes’s theory of poisoning seemed. I remembered how he had sniffed his lips, and I was sure he had detected something that inspired that idea. But if it wasn’t poison, what had caused the man’s death, since there was no wound or sign of strangulation? And whose blood was that thickly pooled on the floor? There were no signs of a struggle, and the victim had no weapon with which he might have injured an attacker. Until these questions were answered, I knew neither Holmes nor I would rest easily. His calm, confident manner convinced me he already had a theory that explained everything, though I couldn’t begin to guess what it was.

He came home very late—so late that I knew the concert couldn’t have detained him all that time. Dinner was already on the table when he finally appeared.

“It was magnificent,” he said as he sat down. “Do you remember what Darwin says about music? He claims that humans could make and appreciate music long before they learned to speak. Perhaps that’s why it affects us so deeply—there are vague memories in our souls of those misty centuries when the world was still in its childhood.”

“That’s a rather broad idea,” I said.

“One’s ideas must be as broad as Nature if they’re to explain Nature,” he replied. “What’s wrong? You don’t look yourself. This Brixton Road case has shaken you.”

“In truth, it has,” I admitted. “I should be tougher after my experiences in Afghanistan. I saw my comrades cut to pieces at Maiwand without losing my nerve.”

“I understand. This case has a mystery that fires the imagination; and without imagination, there is no horror. Have you seen the evening paper?”

“No.”

“It gives a fairly good account of the affair. It doesn’t mention that when the body was lifted, a woman’s wedding ring fell to the floor. That’s just as well.”

“Why?”

“Look at this advertisement,” he said. “I had it sent to every paper this morning, right after the case broke.”

He tossed the paper to me, and I looked at the marked spot. It was the first notice in the ‘Found’ column: “In Brixton Road this morning, a plain gold wedding ring was found in the roadway between the ‘White Hart’ Tavern and Holland Grove. Apply Dr. Watson, 221B Baker Street, between eight and nine this evening.”

“Sorry for using your name,” he said. “If I’d used mine, some of these idiots would recognize it and try to interfere.”

“That’s fine,” I said. “But if anyone shows up, I don’t actually have the ring.”

“Oh yes, you do,” he said, handing me one. “This will do nicely. It’s almost identical.”

“And who do you expect will answer the ad?”

“The man in the brown coat—our red-faced friend with the square-toed boots. If he doesn’t come himself, he’ll send someone else.”

“Wouldn’t he think it too risky?”

“Not at all. If I’m right—and I’m sure I am—he’d risk anything rather than lose that ring. I believe he dropped it while bending over Drebber’s body and didn’t notice at the time. After leaving the house, he realized it was missing and hurried back, but by then the police were already there—thanks to his own stupidity in leaving the candle burning. He had to pretend to be drunk to avoid suspicion when he appeared at the gate. Now, put yourself in his place. Thinking it over, he’d realize he might have lost the ring on the road after leaving the house. What would he do then? He’d eagerly check the evening papers, hoping to see it listed among the found items. His eyes would fall on this notice, and he’d be thrilled. Why would he suspect a trap? There’s no reason he’d connect the lost ring with the murder. He’ll come. He will come. You’ll see him within the hour.”

“And then?” I asked.

“Oh, leave him to me. Do you have a weapon?”

“I have my old service revolver and a few cartridges.”

“Better clean and load it. He’ll be desperate, and though I plan to catch him off guard, it’s best to be ready for anything.”

I went to my bedroom and did as he said. When I returned with the pistol, the table had been cleared, and Holmes was absorbed in his favorite pastime—playing his violin.

“The plot thickens,” he said as I entered. “I’ve just received a reply to my American telegram. My theory is the correct one.”

“And what is it?” I asked eagerly.

“My violin could use new strings,” he said instead. “Put your pistol in your pocket. When the man arrives, talk to him normally. Leave the rest to me. Don’t stare at him or you’ll scare him off.”

“It’s eight o’clock now,” I said, checking my watch.

“Yes. He’ll probably be here in a few minutes. Open the door slightly—yes, that’s right. Now put the key on the inside. Thank you. This is an odd old book I picked up at a stall yesterday—‘De Jure inter Gentes,’ published in Latin at Liège in the Lowlands, in 1642. Charles’s head was still firmly on his shoulders when this little brown-backed volume came off the press.”

“Who’s the printer?”

“Philippe de Croy, whoever that was. On the flyleaf, in very faded ink, it says, ‘Ex libris Guliolmi Whyte.’ I wonder who William Whyte was. Probably some pompous seventeenth‑century lawyer—his handwriting looks legal enough. I think our man’s here.”

As he spoke, the doorbell rang sharply. Sherlock Holmes rose quietly and moved his chair toward the door. We heard the servant walking down the hall and the click of the latch as she opened it.


“Does Dr. Watson live here?” asked a clear but rather harsh voice. We couldn’t hear the servant’s reply, but the door closed, and someone began climbing the stairs. The footsteps were slow and shuffling. A look of surprise crossed Holmes’s face as he listened. The steps came hesitantly along the passage, then there was a faint tap at the door.

“Come in,” I called.

Instead of the dangerous man we expected, a very old, wrinkled woman hobbled into the room. The sudden brightness of the lamps seemed to dazzle her. After dropping a curtsey, she stood blinking at us with bleary eyes, fumbling nervously in her pocket with trembling fingers. I glanced at Holmes; his expression was so hopeless that I had to fight to keep from laughing.

The old woman pulled out an evening paper and pointed to our advertisement. “It’s this that brought me, gentlemen,” she said, curtseying again. “A gold wedding ring found on Brixton Road. It belongs to my girl Sally, who was married just this time last year. Her husband’s a steward on a Union boat, and what he’d say if he came home and found her without her ring, I can’t imagine—he’s short‑tempered enough at the best of times, and worse when he’s been drinking. If you please, she went to the circus last night with—”

“Is that her ring?” I asked.

“Thank the Lord!” cried the old woman. “Sally will be a happy woman tonight. That’s the ring.”

“And what’s your address?” I asked, picking up a pencil.

“13 Duncan Street, Houndsditch. A long way from here.”

“The Brixton Road isn’t between any circus and Houndsditch,” said Sherlock Holmes sharply.

The old woman turned and looked at him keenly with her little red‑rimmed eyes. “The gentleman asked for my address,” she said. “Sally lives in lodgings at 3 Mayfield Place, Peckham.”

“And your name is—?”

“My name’s Sawyer—hers is Dennis. Tom Dennis married her, and he’s a smart, clean lad as long as he’s at sea. No steward in the company is better thought of. But when he’s ashore, what with women and what with the liquor shops—”

“Here’s your ring, Mrs. Sawyer,” I interrupted, following a signal from Holmes. “It clearly belongs to your daughter, and I’m glad to return it to its rightful owner.”

Muttering blessings and thanks, the old woman tucked the ring into her pocket and shuffled out. The moment she was gone, Holmes jumped up and rushed into his room. He came back a few seconds later wrapped in his ulster and scarf. “I’ll follow her,” he said quickly. “She must be an accomplice and will lead me to him. Wait up for me.” The front door had barely closed behind our visitor before Holmes was already down the stairs. Looking out the window, I saw her tottering along the opposite side of the street, with Holmes shadowing her a short distance behind. “Either his whole theory is wrong,” I thought, “or this will lead him straight to the heart of the mystery.” He didn’t need to tell me to stay up—I knew I couldn’t sleep until I heard how it ended.

It was about nine when he left. I had no idea how long he’d be gone, but I sat smoking my pipe and flipping through Henri Murger’s *Vie de Bohème.* Ten o’clock came, and I heard the maid’s light footsteps as she went to bed. At eleven, the landlady’s heavier tread passed my door on the same errand. It was nearly midnight before I heard the sharp sound of Holmes’s key in the latch. The moment he entered, I could see from his face that he hadn’t been successful. Amusement and frustration seemed to struggle for control until amusement won, and he burst out laughing.

“I wouldn’t have the Scotland Yard men know this for the world,” he said, dropping into his chair. “I’ve teased them so much that they’d never let me forget it. But I can laugh, because I know I’ll even the score with them in the end.”

“What happened?” I asked.

“Oh, I don’t mind telling a story against myself. That old woman had gone only a little way when she started to limp and act as if her feet hurt. Soon she stopped and hailed a passing four‑wheeler. I got close enough to hear the address—but I needn’t have tried so hard, because she shouted it loud enough for the whole street to hear: ‘Drive to 13 Duncan Street, Houndsditch!’ she cried. ‘This looks genuine,’ I thought. After she climbed in, I jumped onto the back. That’s a skill every detective should master. Off we rattled and didn’t stop until we reached the street she’d named. I hopped off before we got to the house and strolled down casually. I saw the cab pull up. The driver jumped down, opened the door, and waited. But no one got out. When I reached him, he was rummaging frantically through the empty cab, swearing in the most impressive variety I’ve ever heard. There was no sign of his passenger, and I doubt he’ll ever get his fare. When I asked at Number 13, I found the house belonged to a respectable paperhanger named Keswick—and no one there had ever heard of anyone named Sawyer or Dennis.”

“You can’t mean,” I exclaimed in astonishment, “that the frail, shaky old woman managed to get out of the cab while it was still moving—without you or the driver seeing her?”

“Old woman, my foot!” said Sherlock Holmes sharply. “We were the fools for being tricked so easily. It had to be a young man—an agile one—and an outstanding actor at that. The disguise was perfect. He must have realized he was being followed and used that trick to shake me off. This proves the man we’re after isn’t as isolated as I thought. He has friends willing to take risks for him. Now, Doctor, you look exhausted. Take my advice and get some rest.”

I really was very tired, so I did as he said. I left Holmes sitting by the dying fire, and late into the night I heard the low, mournful sound of his violin. I knew he was still deep in thought, working over the strange mystery he had taken on to solve.

## Chapter 6 — Tobias Gregson Shows What He Can Do

The newspapers the next day were full of what they called the “Brixton Mystery.” Each paper carried a lengthy article on the case, and some even published editorials. There was information in them that was new to me. I still have a scrapbook filled with clippings and excerpts about the affair. Here is a summary of a few of them:

The *Daily Telegraph* declared that, in the history of crime, few tragedies had stranger details. The German name of the victim, the absence of any apparent motive, and the sinister message on the wall all suggested that the crime had been committed by political refugees or revolutionaries. The Socialists had many branches in America, and the victim had probably broken some unwritten rule of theirs and been hunted down. After casually mentioning the Vehmgericht, aqua tofana, the Carbonari, the Marchioness de Brinvilliers, Darwin’s theory, Malthus’s principles, and the Ratcliff Highway murders, the article concluded by warning the Government and calling for stricter surveillance of foreigners in England.

The *Standard* commented that lawless acts of this kind usually occurred under a Liberal government. They were caused by the unrest of the masses and the weakening of authority. The victim was an American gentleman who had been living in London for several weeks. He had lodged at the boarding house of Madame Charpentier in Torquay Terrace, Camberwell. He was traveling with his private secretary, Mr. Joseph Stangerson. The two had taken leave of their landlady on Tuesday the 4th and left for Euston Station, saying they were taking the Liverpool express. They were last seen together on the platform. Nothing more was known until Mr. Drebber’s body was discovered, as reported, in an empty house on Brixton Road, many miles from Euston. How he came there or how he met his death remained complete mysteries. Nothing was known of Stangerson’s whereabouts. The paper was pleased to report that Mr. Lestrade and Mr. Gregson of Scotland Yard were both engaged on the case and confidently predicted that these well-known detectives would soon shed light upon it.

The *Daily News* asserted that there was no doubt the crime was political. The despotism and hatred of Liberalism among the Continental governments had driven many men to England who might have been good citizens had they not been embittered by what they had suffered. Among such men there existed a strict code of honour, and any violation was punished by death. Every effort, the paper said, should be made to find the secretary, Stangerson, and to learn more about the victim’s habits. A major step forward had been made by discovering the address of the boarding house where he had stayed—a result entirely due to the sharpness and energy of Mr. Gregson of Scotland Yard.

Sherlock Holmes and I read these articles together at breakfast, and they seemed to amuse him greatly.

“I told you,” he said, “that no matter what happens, Lestrade and Gregson will come out looking good.”

“That depends on how it turns out,” I said.

“Oh, not at all. If the man is caught, it will be *because* of their efforts; if he escapes, it will be *in spite* of their efforts. Either way, they win. Whatever they do, they’ll have admirers. ‘Un sot trouve toujours un plus sot qui l’admire.’”

“What on earth is this?” I cried, for just then we heard a rush of footsteps in the hallway and on the stairs, accompanied by our landlady’s exasperated protests.

“It’s the Baker Street division of the detective police,” said Holmes gravely. As he spoke, half a dozen of the dirtiest, most ragged street boys I had ever seen burst into the room.

“Attention!” Holmes barked, and the six grubby little rascals lined up like a row of disreputable statues. “From now on, Wiggins alone will come up to report. The rest of you wait in the street. Have you found it, Wiggins?”

“No, sir, we haven’t,” said one of the boys.

“I didn’t really expect you to. Keep at it until you do. Here’s your pay.” He handed each of them a shilling.

“Now off you go, and bring me a better report next time.”

He waved his hand, and they scurried downstairs like rats. A moment later we heard their high-pitched voices outside.

“You can get more work out of one of those little devils than out of a dozen policemen,” Holmes remarked. “The moment an official-looking person appears, people clam up. But these kids go everywhere and hear everything. They’re sharp as needles—what they need is organization.”

“Are you using them for this Brixton case?” I asked.

“Yes. There’s one point I want to clear up. It’s just a matter of time. Ah, we’re about to hear some news now, and serious news at that! Here comes Gregson down the road, looking absolutely delighted. He’s heading here, I can tell. Yes, he’s stopping. There he is!”

There was a loud ring at the bell, and a few seconds later the fair-haired detective bounded up the stairs three at a time and burst into our sitting room.

“My dear fellow,” he cried, shaking Holmes’s unresponsive hand, “congratulate me! I’ve made the whole thing as clear as day.”

I thought I saw a flicker of concern cross Holmes’s face.

“Do you mean you’re on the right track?” he asked.

“The right track? My dear sir, we’ve got the man locked up.”

“And his name?”

“Arthur Charpentier, sub-lieutenant in Her Majesty’s navy,” Gregson declared proudly, rubbing his hands and puffing out his chest.

Sherlock Holmes sighed with relief and smiled.

“Have a seat and try one of these cigars,” he said. “We’re eager to hear how you managed it. Would you like some whiskey and water?”

“I wouldn’t mind,” said the detective. “The strain I’ve been under these last couple of days has worn me out—not so much physically, you understand, but mentally. You’ll appreciate that, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, since we’re both brain-workers.”

“You give me too much credit,” said Holmes seriously. “Let’s hear how you reached this very satisfying result.”

The detective sat down in the armchair and puffed contentedly on his cigar. Then he suddenly slapped his thigh, overcome with amusement.

“The funny part is,” he exclaimed, “that fool Lestrade, who thinks he’s so clever, has gone completely off on the wrong track. He’s chasing the secretary, Stangerson, who had no more to do with the crime than a newborn baby. I’ve no doubt he’s caught him by now.”

The thought amused Gregson so much that he laughed until he nearly choked.

“And how did you find your clue?” asked Holmes.

“Ah, I’ll tell you everything. Of course, Doctor Watson, this is strictly between us. The first problem we faced was finding out about this American’s background. Some people would have waited for replies to their advertisements or for someone to come forward with information. That’s not how Tobias Gregson works. You remember the hat beside the dead man?”

“Yes,” said Holmes. “By John Underwood and Sons, 129 Camberwell Road.”

Gregson looked quite deflated.

“I didn’t realize you noticed that,” he said. “Have you been there?”

“No.”

“Ha!” said Gregson, sounding relieved. “You should never ignore a lead, no matter how small it seems.”

“To a great mind, nothing is small,” Holmes said sententiously.

“Well, I went to Underwood and asked if he had sold a hat of that size and description. He checked his records and found it immediately. He had sent the hat to a Mr. Drebber, staying at Charpentier’s Boarding Establishment, Torquay Terrace. That’s how I got his address.”

“Smart—very smart,” murmured Sherlock Holmes.

“I next called on Madame Charpentier,” the detective continued. “I found her very pale and distressed. Her daughter was in the room too—an exceptionally beautiful girl, by the way. Her eyes were red, and her lips trembled as I spoke to her. I noticed that right away. I began to suspect something. You know the feeling, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, when you realize you’re on the right scent—it’s like a thrill through your nerves. ‘Have you heard about the mysterious death of your former boarder, Mr. Enoch J. Drebber of Cleveland?’ I asked.

“The mother nodded. She couldn’t seem to speak. The daughter burst into tears. I was more convinced than ever that they knew something.


“What time did Mr. Drebber leave your house for the train?” I asked.

“At eight o’clock,” she said, swallowing hard to control her emotions. “His secretary, Mr. Stangerson, said there were two trains—one at 9:15 and one at 11. He was supposed to catch the first.”

“And that was the last you saw of him?”

A terrible change came over the woman’s face. She turned deathly pale, and it took her several seconds to force out a single word—“Yes”—in a hoarse, unnatural tone.

There was silence for a moment, then the daughter spoke in a calm, clear voice.

“No good can come from lying, Mother,” she said. “Let’s be honest with this gentleman. We did see Mr. Drebber again.”

“God forgive you!” cried Madame Charpentier, throwing up her hands and sinking back in her chair. “You’ve ruined your brother.”

“Arthur would want us to tell the truth,” the girl said firmly.

“You’d better tell me everything now,” I said. “Half-truths are worse than none. Besides, you don’t know how much we already know.”

“It’s on your head, Alice!” cried her mother. Then she turned to me. “I’ll tell you everything, sir. But don’t think my distress about my son comes from any fear that he had a part in this terrible affair. He’s completely innocent. What I fear is that, in your eyes and others’, he may appear compromised. But that’s surely impossible. His good character, his profession, and his background all speak for him.”

“Your best course is to tell the whole truth,” I said. “If your son is innocent, it can’t harm him.”

“Perhaps, Alice, you’d better leave us,” she said, and her daughter left the room. “Now, sir,” she continued, “I hadn’t planned to tell you all this, but since my poor daughter has revealed part of it, I have no choice. Since I’ve decided to speak, I’ll tell you everything without leaving anything out.”

“That’s the wisest thing to do,” I said.

“Mr. Drebber had been with us nearly three weeks. He and his secretary, Mr. Stangerson, had been traveling on the Continent. I noticed a ‘Copenhagen’ label on each of their trunks, showing that was their last stop. Stangerson was quiet and reserved, but his employer, I’m sorry to say, was the opposite. He was coarse in his habits and brutish in his behavior. The very night he arrived, he got terribly drunk, and after noon each day he was rarely sober. His manners toward the maids were disgustingly familiar. Worst of all, he soon behaved the same way toward my daughter, Alice, and spoke to her more than once in a way she was fortunately too innocent to fully understand. Once, he actually grabbed her and tried to kiss her—an outrage that even his own secretary scolded him for as unmanly.”

“But why did you put up with all that?” I asked. “I assume you can dismiss your boarders whenever you wish.”

Mrs. Charpentier blushed. “God knows I wish I’d given him notice the very day he arrived,” she said. “But it was a hard temptation. They were paying a pound a day each—fourteen pounds a week—and this is the slow season. I’m a widow, and my son in the Navy has cost me dearly. I hated to lose the money. I thought I was being sensible. But that last incident was too much, and I gave him notice to leave because of it. That’s why he went.”

“Well?”

“My heart lifted when I saw him drive away. My son is home on leave right now, but I didn’t tell him any of this. His temper is fierce, and he’s extremely protective of his sister. When I closed the door behind them, it felt like a weight had been lifted from my mind. But less than an hour later, the doorbell rang, and I learned that Mr. Drebber had come back. He was agitated and clearly drunk. He pushed his way into the room where I was sitting with my daughter and mumbled something about missing his train. Then he turned to Alice and, right in front of me, asked her to run away with him. ‘You’re of age,’ he said. ‘No law can stop you. I’ve got plenty of money. Forget the old lady here—come with me right now. You’ll live like a princess.’

Poor Alice was so terrified she shrank away from him, but he grabbed her wrist and tried to pull her toward the door. I screamed, and at that moment my son Arthur came into the room. I don’t know exactly what happened next. I heard angry shouts and the sounds of a struggle. I was too frightened to look up. When I finally did, I saw Arthur standing in the doorway, laughing, with a stick in his hand. ‘I don’t think that fine gentleman will bother us again,’ he said. ‘I’ll just go after him and see what he’s up to.’ With that, he put on his hat and went out into the street. The next morning we heard about Mr. Drebber’s mysterious death.”

Mrs. Charpentier gave this account between gasps and long pauses. Sometimes she spoke so softly I could barely hear her. Still, I took shorthand notes of everything she said so there’d be no chance of error.

“Quite exciting,” said Sherlock Holmes with a yawn. “What happened next?”

“When Mrs. Charpentier stopped,” the detective continued, “I realized the whole case depended on one question. I fixed my eyes on her, which I’ve always found effective with women, and asked what time her son came home.

‘I don’t know,’ she said.

‘You don’t know?’

‘No. He has his own key and let himself in.’

‘After you went to bed?’

‘Yes.’

‘When did you go to bed?’

‘Around eleven.’

‘So your son was gone at least two hours?’

‘Yes.’

‘Maybe four or five?’

‘Yes.’

‘What was he doing all that time?’

‘I don’t know,’ she said, turning pale as death.

After that, there was nothing more to do. I found out where Lieutenant Charpentier was, took two officers with me, and arrested him. When I touched his shoulder and told him to come quietly, he said boldly, ‘I suppose you’re arresting me for being involved in that scoundrel Drebber’s death.’ We hadn’t mentioned Drebber at all, so his bringing it up seemed very suspicious.”

“Very,” said Holmes.

“He still had the heavy stick his mother said he’d taken when he followed Drebber. It was a sturdy oak club.”

“What’s your theory, then?”

“My theory is that he followed Drebber as far as Brixton Road. There, another argument broke out between them, and Drebber was struck with the stick—perhaps in the stomach—killing him instantly but leaving no visible mark. The night was so wet that no one was around, so Charpentier dragged the body into the empty house. As for the candle, the blood, the writing on the wall, and the ring, those could all be tricks to mislead the police.”

“Well done!” said Holmes encouragingly. “Really, Gregson, you’re improving. We might make something of you yet.”

“I think I’ve handled it rather neatly,” the detective said proudly. “The young man gave a statement saying that after following Drebber for a while, Drebber noticed him and took a cab to get away. On his way home, he met an old shipmate and went for a long walk with him. When asked where this old shipmate lived, he couldn’t give a clear answer. I think the whole case fits together remarkably well. What amuses me is thinking of Lestrade, who’s been chasing the wrong lead. I doubt he’ll get far with it. Why, by Jove, here’s the man himself!”

It really was Lestrade, who had come up the stairs while we were talking and now entered the room. The usual confidence and briskness in his manner and dress were gone. His face looked troubled, and his clothes were rumpled and untidy. It was clear he’d come to consult Sherlock Holmes, but when he saw his colleague, he seemed embarrassed and uneasy. He stood in the middle of the room, nervously twisting his hat, unsure what to do. “This is the strangest case,” he said finally. “Completely baffling.”

“Ah, you think so, Mr. Lestrade!” said Gregson triumphantly. “I thought you’d come to that conclusion. Have you found the secretary, Mr. Joseph Stangerson?”

“The secretary, Mr. Joseph Stangerson,” said Lestrade gravely, “was murdered at Halliday’s Private Hotel around six o’clock this morning.”

## Chapter 7 — Light In The Darkness

The news Lestrade brought was so grave and unexpected that the three of us were completely stunned. Gregson leapt from his chair, spilling the rest of his whiskey and water. I simply stared at Sherlock Holmes, whose lips were pressed tight and brows drawn low over his eyes.

“Stangerson too!” he muttered. “The plot thickens.”

“It was thick enough already,” grumbled Lestrade, taking a seat. “Feels like I’ve walked into a war council.”

“Are—are you certain about this?” Gregson stammered.

“I’ve just come from his room,” said Lestrade. “I was the first to discover what had happened.”

“We’ve heard Gregson’s account,” Holmes said. “Would you mind telling us what you’ve seen and done?”

“Not at all,” Lestrade replied, settling into his chair. “I’ll admit I was convinced Stangerson was involved in Drebber’s death. This new development proves I was completely wrong. Focused on that one idea, I set out to trace the secretary. They were seen together at Euston Station around half past eight on the evening of the third. At two in the morning, Drebber was found in Brixton Road. The question was what Stangerson had been doing between 8:30 and the time of the murder—and what became of him afterward. I telegraphed Liverpool with his description, warning them to watch the American ships. Then I began calling at all the hotels and lodging houses near Euston. I figured that if Drebber and his companion had become separated, Stangerson would naturally find a place nearby for the night and return to the station in the morning.”

“They probably agreed on a meeting place beforehand,” Holmes remarked.

“Exactly. I spent all last evening making inquiries without success. This morning I started early, and by eight o’clock I reached Halliday’s Private Hotel in Little George Street. When I asked if a Mr. Stangerson was staying there, they said yes at once.

“‘You must be the gentleman he’s been expecting,’ they told me. ‘He’s been waiting for someone for two days.’

“‘Where is he now?’ I asked.

“‘He’s upstairs in bed. He asked to be called at nine.’

“‘I’ll go up and see him immediately,’ I said.

“I thought my sudden appearance might startle him into saying something revealing. The Boots offered to show me the room. It was on the second floor at the end of a narrow corridor. He pointed out the door and was about to go back downstairs when I saw something that made me feel sick, even after twenty years on the force. A thin red ribbon of blood was curling out from under the door, winding across the passage, and pooling along the skirting on the other side. I shouted, bringing the Boots back. He nearly fainted when he saw it. The door was locked from the inside, but we forced it open. The window stood wide, and beside it, huddled on the floor, lay the body of a man in his nightclothes. He was dead, and had been for some time—his limbs stiff and cold. When we turned him over, the Boots immediately recognized him as the same gentleman who had rented the room under the name Joseph Stangerson. The cause of death was a deep stab wound on the left side, straight to the heart. And now comes the strangest part. What do you think was written above the body?”

Even before Holmes answered, a chill ran through me—a sense of horror approaching.

“The word RACHE, written in blood,” he said.

“That’s right,” said Lestrade, his voice full of awe. We all sat silent for a while.

There was something so deliberate and yet so baffling about this unknown killer’s actions that it made his crimes even more horrifying. My nerves, steady enough in battle, tingled as I thought of it.

“The man was seen,” Lestrade continued. “A milk boy, on his way to the dairy, happened to go down the lane behind the hotel. He noticed that a ladder, which usually lay on the ground, was propped against one of the second-floor windows, which was open. After passing, he looked back and saw a man coming down the ladder. The man moved so calmly and openly that the boy assumed he was a carpenter or handyman working at the hotel. He didn’t pay much attention, except to think it was early for someone to start work. He remembers the man as tall, with a reddish face, wearing a long brownish coat. He must have stayed in the room for some time after the murder, because we found blood-stained water in the basin where he’d washed his hands, and marks on the sheets where he’d wiped his knife.”

I glanced at Holmes when I heard the description of the murderer—it matched his own exactly. But his face showed no sign of triumph or satisfaction.

“Did you find anything in the room that might give a clue to the murderer?” he asked.

“Nothing. Stangerson had Drebber’s purse in his pocket, but that was normal—he handled all the payments. There were about eighty pounds in it, untouched. So whatever the motive behind these strange crimes, robbery certainly isn’t one of them. There were no papers or notes in the victim’s pockets, except for a single telegram dated from Cleveland about a month ago. It said, ‘J. H. is in Europe.’ There was no signature.”

“And nothing else?” Holmes asked.

“Nothing of importance. The novel he’d fallen asleep reading was on the bed, and his pipe was on a chair beside him. There was a glass of water on the table, and on the window ledge, a small ointment box with two pills inside.”

Sherlock Holmes sprang from his chair with a cry of excitement.

“The last link!” he shouted in triumph. “My case is complete.”

The two detectives stared at him in astonishment.

“I now hold in my hands,” my companion said confidently, “all the threads of this tangled affair. There are still details to fill in, of course, but I’m certain of all the main facts—from the moment Drebber left Stangerson at the station to the discovery of Stangerson’s body—as clearly as if I’d seen them myself. I’ll prove what I know. Could you hand me those pills?”

“I have them,” said Lestrade, pulling out a small white box. “I took them, along with the purse and the telegram, intending to deposit them safely at the station. It was pure chance I grabbed the pills at all, since I didn’t think they were important.”

“Give them here,” said Holmes. “Now, Doctor,” he said, turning to me, “are those ordinary pills?”

They certainly were not. They were pearly gray, small, round, and almost transparent when held to the light. “From how light and clear they are, I’d guess they dissolve easily in water,” I said.

“Exactly,” replied Holmes. “Now, would you mind going down and bringing up that poor little terrier that’s been sick so long—the one the landlady wanted you to put out of its misery yesterday?”

I went downstairs and carried the dog up in my arms. Its heavy breathing and dull eyes showed it was near death. Its snow-white muzzle proved it had already lived beyond a dog’s usual span. I laid it on a cushion by the fire.

“I’ll cut one of these pills in half,” said Holmes, drawing his penknife and doing so. “We’ll put one half back in the box for later. The other half I’ll drop into this wine glass with a teaspoon of water. You can see the Doctor was right—it dissolves instantly.”

“This may be interesting,” said Lestrade, sounding offended, as if he thought we were making fun of him. “But I don’t see what this has to do with the death of Mr. Joseph Stangerson.”

“Patience, my friend, patience! You’ll see soon enough that it has everything to do with it. I’ll add a little milk to make it drinkable, and when I offer it to the dog, you’ll see he laps it up at once.”

As he spoke, he poured the glass into a saucer and set it before the terrier, who quickly licked it dry. Holmes’s serious manner had convinced us all, so we sat silently watching the dog, waiting for something dramatic to happen. But nothing did. The dog lay still on the cushion, breathing heavily but no better or worse for the dose.


Holmes took out his watch. As the minutes passed without result, his face showed growing frustration and disappointment. He bit his lip, drummed his fingers on the table, and looked every bit the picture of impatience. He was so agitated that I felt genuine sympathy for him, while the two detectives smirked, clearly pleased to see him fail.

“It can’t be coincidence!” he suddenly cried, leaping up and pacing the room. “Impossible! The very pills I suspected in Drebber’s case are found after Stangerson’s death—and yet they’re harmless? What can it mean? My entire chain of reasoning can’t be wrong. Impossible! And yet this poor dog is fine. Ah, I see it! I see it!”

With a shout of triumph, he rushed to the box, cut the second pill in half, dissolved it, added milk, and gave it to the terrier. The poor creature’s tongue had barely touched the mixture when it shuddered violently, every limb convulsing, and then lay stiff and lifeless, as if struck by lightning.

Sherlock Holmes drew a deep breath and wiped the sweat from his forehead. “I should have had more faith,” he said. “I ought to know by now that when a fact seems to contradict a long line of reasoning, it usually means it can be interpreted another way. Of the two pills in that box, one was deadly poison and the other completely harmless. I should have realized that before I even saw the box.”

That last statement was so astonishing I could hardly believe he was serious. But the dead dog proved his guess correct. The fog in my mind began to lift, and I started to glimpse the truth.

“All this seems strange to you,” Holmes continued, “because at the start of the investigation, you didn’t recognize the importance of the one real clue that was right before you. I was fortunate enough to spot it, and everything since has confirmed my first theory—it all follows logically from it. So the things that confused you and made the case seem more complicated actually helped me see the truth more clearly.

“It’s a mistake to confuse something strange with something mysterious. The most ordinary crime is often the hardest to solve because it lacks distinctive features to draw conclusions from. This murder would have been far more difficult to unravel if the body had simply been found lying in the street, without those bizarre and dramatic details that made it stand out. Those strange details, instead of making the case harder, actually made it easier.”

Mr. Gregson, who had been listening impatiently, could hold back no longer. “Look here, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” he said, “we all admit you’re a clever man and that you have your own way of working. But we need more than theories and lectures now. It’s time to catch the man. I built my case, and it turns out I was wrong. Young Charpentier couldn’t have been involved in this second affair. Lestrade went after his man, Stangerson, and he was wrong too. You’ve been dropping hints here and there, acting like you know more than we do, but now we have a right to ask you straight out—how much do you actually know about this case? Can you name the man who did it?”

“I can’t help thinking Gregson’s right, sir,” said Lestrade. “We’ve both tried and both failed. You’ve said more than once since I came in that you already have all the evidence you need. Surely you won’t keep it from us any longer.”

“Any delay in arresting the killer,” I said, “might give him time to commit another crime.”

Pressed by all of us, Holmes began to show some hesitation. He paced the room, head down and brows drawn together, as he usually did when deep in thought.

“There won’t be any more murders,” he said finally, stopping suddenly and facing us. “You can set that worry aside. You asked if I know the killer’s name. I do. But knowing his name is a small thing compared to actually catching him. I expect to do that very soon. I have good hopes of managing it through my own arrangements, but it must be handled carefully. We’re dealing with a sharp and desperate man, supported, as I’ve discovered, by another just as clever. As long as he has no idea that anyone has a clue, we have a chance to catch him. But if he even suspected it, he’d change his name and vanish instantly among the four million people in this vast city. Without meaning to offend either of you, I must say that I think these men are more than a match for the official force. That’s why I haven’t asked for your help. If I fail, I’ll take full responsibility for that decision, and I’m prepared to do so. For now, I promise that the moment I can contact you without endangering my plan, I’ll do it.”

Gregson and Lestrade did not look satisfied by this assurance or by Holmes’s dismissive remark about the police. Gregson flushed to the roots of his blond hair, while Lestrade’s small eyes glittered with curiosity and resentment. Neither had time to speak before there was a knock at the door, and young Wiggins, the spokesman for the street boys, came in—small, scruffy, and unkempt.

“Please, sir,” he said, touching his forelock, “I’ve got the cab downstairs.”

“Good boy,” said Holmes pleasantly. “Why don’t you introduce this model at Scotland Yard?” he went on, taking a pair of steel handcuffs from a drawer. “See how smoothly the spring works. They lock in an instant.”

“The old model’s good enough,” said Lestrade, “if we can just find the man to put them on.”

“Very good, very good,” Holmes said with a smile. “The cabman can help me with my boxes. Ask him to come up, Wiggins.”

I was surprised to hear Holmes speak as though he were about to leave, since he hadn’t mentioned any trip to me. There was a small portmanteau in the room, which he pulled out and began to strap. He was busy with it when the cabman entered.

“Give me a hand with this buckle, cabman,” Holmes said, kneeling over his task without looking up.

The man came forward with a sullen, defiant look and reached down to help. At that instant there was a sharp click and the sound of metal. Sherlock Holmes sprang to his feet.

“Gentlemen,” he cried, eyes blazing, “let me introduce Mr. Jefferson Hope, the murderer of Enoch Drebber and Joseph Stangerson.”

It all happened in a flash—so fast I barely had time to take it in. I can still clearly remember Holmes’s triumphant expression and ringing voice, and the cabman’s stunned, furious face as he stared at the shining handcuffs that had appeared as if by magic on his wrists. For a second or two we might have been statues. Then, with a roar of rage, the prisoner tore himself free from Holmes’s grasp and hurled himself through the window. Wood and glass shattered before him, but before he could get through, Gregson, Lestrade, and Holmes leapt on him like hounds. They dragged him back into the room, and a fierce struggle began. He was so strong and wild that he threw all four of us off again and again. He seemed to have the convulsive strength of a man in an epileptic fit. His face and hands were badly cut from the glass, but the blood loss didn’t seem to weaken him. Only when Lestrade managed to get his hand inside the man’s neckcloth and half-strangle him did we finally make him realize resistance was useless. Even then we didn’t feel safe until we had tied his feet as well as his hands. Once that was done, we stood up, breathless and panting.

“We’ve got his cab,” said Sherlock Holmes. “It’ll do to take him to Scotland Yard. And now, gentlemen,” he added with a friendly smile, “we’ve reached the end of our little mystery. You’re welcome to ask me any questions you like now, and I promise I won’t refuse to answer.”

## Part 2


## Chapter 1 — On The Great Alkali Plain

At the heart of the North American continent lies a vast, desolate desert that for many years stood as a barrier to the advance of civilization. From the Sierra Nevada to Nebraska, and from the Yellowstone River in the north to the Colorado in the south, stretches a region of silence and desolation. Yet Nature’s moods vary even across this grim expanse. Snow-capped mountains rise above dark, shadowed valleys. Swift rivers carve their way through jagged canyons, and immense plains lie white with snow in winter and gray with alkali dust in summer. Still, all share the same traits—barrenness, hostility, and misery.

No one lives in this land of despair. A band of Pawnees or Blackfeet may sometimes cross it on their way to other hunting grounds, but even the hardiest warriors are relieved to leave those dreadful plains behind and return to their prairies. The coyote skulks among the scrub. The buzzard flaps heavily through the air. The clumsy grizzly bear lumbers through the dark ravines, scavenging what little food it can find among the rocks. These are the only inhabitants of the wilderness.

Nowhere on earth is there a drearier sight than the view from the northern slope of the Sierra Blanco. As far as the eye can see stretches a vast, flat expanse, dusted with patches of alkali and broken only by clumps of stunted chaparral. On the farthest edge of the horizon lies a chain of mountain peaks, their rugged tops streaked with snow. Across that immense landscape, there is no sign of life—nothing that even hints at it. No bird moves in the steel-blue sky, no motion stirs the dull gray earth. Above all, there is silence—absolute, crushing silence. Listen as long as you will; not the faintest sound breaks that vast stillness. Only silence—complete, overwhelming silence.

It has been said that nothing alive exists on the broad plain. That is not quite true. Looking down from the Sierra Blanco, one can see a trail winding across the desert, fading into the distant horizon. It is rutted by wheels and stamped down by the feet of many travelers. Here and there, white objects glint in the sun, standing out against the dull alkali dust. Look closer—they are bones. Some large and heavy, others smaller and finer. The big ones belonged to oxen; the small ones to humans. For fifteen hundred miles, this grim caravan route can be traced by the scattered remains of those who fell along the way.

On the fourth of May, eighteen hundred and forty-seven, a lone traveler stood looking down on this very scene. His appearance was so stark and wild he might have seemed the very spirit—or demon—of the place. It would have been hard to tell whether he was closer to forty or sixty. His face was thin and worn, the brown, leathery skin stretched tight over his jutting bones. His long brown hair and beard were streaked with white. His eyes were sunken deep in his head, burning with an unnatural light. The hand gripping his rifle was as thin as a skeleton’s. He leaned on the gun for support, yet his tall frame and the heavy build of his bones hinted at a once-strong, wiry body. His gaunt face and the loose, baggy clothes hanging from his shriveled limbs told the rest of the story. The man was dying—dying of hunger and thirst.

He had struggled painfully down the ravine and climbed this small rise, hoping in vain to spot some sign of water. Now before him stretched the great salt plain, ringed by distant, savage mountains, with not a trace of plant or tree to suggest moisture anywhere. Across that vast landscape there was no glimmer of hope. He looked north, east, and west with desperate eyes, and at last understood that his wandering was over. There, on that barren rock, he was going to die. “Why not here, as well as in a feather bed twenty years from now,” he muttered, sitting down in the shelter of a boulder.

Before sitting, he had laid down his useless rifle and a large bundle tied in a gray shawl, which he had carried slung over his right shoulder. It seemed too heavy for his strength, for when he lowered it, it dropped to the ground with a bit of force. Instantly, a soft, moaning cry came from the gray bundle, and a small, frightened face appeared, with bright brown eyes and two tiny, dimpled fists.

“You hurt me!” said a small voice, reproachfully.

“Did I now?” the man said, remorseful. “I didn’t mean to.” As he spoke, he unwrapped the gray shawl and lifted out a pretty little girl, about five years old. Her neat shoes and pink dress with its small linen apron showed a mother’s care. The child was pale and tired, but her sturdy arms and legs proved she had suffered less than her companion.

“How’s it now?” he asked anxiously, as she rubbed the tangled golden curls at the back of her head.

“Kiss it and make it better,” she said solemnly, holding the sore spot up to him. “That’s what Mother used to do. Where’s Mother?”

“Mother’s gone. I guess you’ll see her before long.”

“Gone, huh?” said the little girl. “Funny, she didn’t say goodbye. She almost always did, even if she was just going over to Auntie’s for tea. And now she’s been gone three days. Say, it’s awful dry, isn’t it? Isn’t there any water, or anything to eat?”

“No, there’s nothing, sweetheart. You’ll just have to be patient a while, and then you’ll be all right. Rest your head against me like that, and you’ll feel better. It’s hard to talk when your lips are like leather, but I guess I’d better tell you how things stand. What’s that you’ve got?”

“Pretty things! Fancy things!” cried the little girl excitedly, holding up two glittering pieces of mica. “When we get back home, I’ll give them to brother Bob.”

“You’ll see prettier things than those soon,” the man said gently. “Just wait a bit. I was going to tell you—do you remember when we left the river?”

“Oh yes.”

“Well, we figured we’d hit another river soon, you see. But something went wrong—maybe the compass, maybe the map—and it never showed up. The water ran out, except for a tiny bit I saved for you and—and——”

“And you couldn’t wash yourself,” said his companion seriously, staring at his dirt-streaked face.

“No, nor drink. Mr. Bender was the first to go, then Indian Pete, then Mrs. McGregor, then Johnny Hones, and then, dearie, your mother.”

“Then mother’s dead too,” cried the little girl, burying her face in her pinafore and sobbing bitterly.

“Yes, they all went, except you and me. Then I thought there might be some water this way, so I hoisted you onto my shoulder and we started walking. Doesn’t look like we’ve made things any better. There’s not much hope for us now.”

“Do you mean we’re going to die too?” asked the child, stopping her sobs and lifting her tear-streaked face.

“I guess that’s about it.”

“Why didn’t you say so before?” she said, suddenly laughing. “You scared me for nothing. Of course, if we die, we’ll be with mother again.”

“Yes, you will, dear.”

“And you too. I’ll tell her how good you’ve been. I bet she’ll meet us at Heaven’s door with a big pitcher of water and a pile of buckwheat cakes, hot and toasted on both sides, just like Bob and I loved. How long will it take?”

“I don’t know—not very long.” The man’s eyes were fixed on the northern horizon. In the blue sky, three small specks had appeared, growing larger every moment as they approached. Soon they became three large brown birds circling above the two wanderers, before settling on some rocks overlooking them. They were buzzards—the vultures of the West—harbingers of death.

“Chickens and roosters!” the little girl cried happily, pointing at the ominous shapes and clapping her hands to make them fly. “Say, did God make this country?”

“Of course He did,” said her companion, startled by the question.

“He made the country down in Illinois, and He made the Missouri,” she went on. “But I think somebody else made this place. It’s not nearly as well done. They forgot the water and the trees.”

“What would you think about saying a prayer?” the man asked hesitantly.

“It’s not night yet,” she said.

“That doesn’t matter. It’s not exactly the usual time, but He won’t mind, you bet. You say the ones you used to say every night in the wagon when we were on the Plains.”

“Why don’t you say some too?” the child asked, her eyes wide.

“I don’t remember them,” he admitted. “Haven’t said any since I was half as tall as that gun. But I guess it’s never too late. You say them, and I’ll join in on the parts I know.”

“Then you’ll have to kneel down—and me too,” she said, spreading out the shawl. “You’ve got to put your hands up like this. It makes you feel kind of nice.”

It would have been a strange sight, if anyone but the buzzards had been there to see it. Side by side on the narrow shawl knelt the two wanderers—the little chattering child and the rough, hardened adventurer. Her round face and his gaunt, weary one were both turned toward the cloudless sky in desperate prayer to the power they were about to meet. Their two voices—one small and clear, the other deep and harsh—joined together in pleading for mercy and forgiveness. When the prayer ended, they sat again in the shadow of the boulder until the child fell asleep, nestled against the broad chest of her protector. He watched her for a while, but nature finally overcame him. For three days and nights he had neither slept nor rested. Slowly his eyelids drooped, his head sank lower and lower, until his grizzled beard touched the golden curls of the child beside him. Both slept the same deep, dreamless sleep.


Had the wanderer remained awake another half hour, he would have witnessed something extraordinary. Far off at the edge of the alkali plain, a faint spray of dust rose—barely visible at first, almost blending with the distant haze—but it grew higher and wider until it became a solid, well-defined cloud. The cloud continued to swell until it was clear that it could only be raised by a great number of moving creatures. In a greener land, one might have thought it a herd of bison crossing the prairie, but that was impossible in this barren wilderness. As the swirl of dust drew nearer to the lonely bluff where the two castaways slept, the canvas tops of wagons and the figures of armed horsemen began to emerge through the haze. It was a vast caravan heading west. But what a caravan it was! When the front reached the foot of the mountains, the rear was still invisible on the horizon. The long line stretched across the plain—wagons and carts, men on horseback, men on foot, countless women staggering under heavy loads, and children toddling beside the wagons or peeking out from beneath the white covers. This was no ordinary band of settlers, but a wandering people driven by hardship to seek a new home. Through the clear air came a confused clatter and rumble from the great mass—creaking wheels, neighing horses, and the murmur of many voices. Loud as it was, it still wasn’t enough to wake the two exhausted travelers sleeping above them.

At the head of the column rode about twenty stern, hard-faced men in dark homespun clothes, carrying rifles. When they reached the base of the bluff, they halted and held a brief council.

“The wells are to the right, brothers,” said one—a clean-shaven man with gray hair and a firm mouth.

“To the right of the Sierra Blanco—then we’ll reach the Rio Grande,” said another.

“Don’t fear for water,” shouted a third. “He who drew it from the rock will not abandon His chosen people now.”

“Amen! Amen!” the group responded.

They were about to move on when one of the youngest, sharp-eyed riders gave a shout and pointed toward the rocky crag above them. From its peak fluttered a small strip of pink, standing out clearly against the gray stone. Instantly, the men pulled up their horses and unslung their guns. More riders galloped forward to support the vanguard. The word “Redskins” was on every lip.

“There can’t be many Indians around here,” said the older man who seemed to be their leader. “We’ve passed the Pawnees, and there are no other tribes until we cross the great mountains.”

“Shall I go ahead and check, Brother Stangerson?” asked one.

“And I,” “and I,” shouted a dozen others.

“Leave your horses here, and we’ll wait for you,” the Elder replied. In moments, the young men dismounted, tied their horses, and began climbing the steep slope toward the object that had caught their attention. They moved quickly and quietly, confident and skilled as seasoned scouts. The men below watched them dart from rock to rock until their figures stood out against the sky. The young man who had first raised the alarm led the way. Suddenly, his companions saw him throw up his hands in shock. When they joined him, they too were struck speechless by what they saw.

On the small plateau crowning the barren hill lay a single huge boulder. Against it rested a tall, bearded man with a rugged face, so thin he looked half-starved. His calm expression and steady breathing showed he was deeply asleep. Beside him lay a little girl, her round white arms wrapped around his brown, sinewy neck, her golden head resting on his chest. Her rosy lips were slightly parted, showing small white teeth, and a sweet smile played across her face. Her plump white legs, ending in white socks and neat shoes with shiny buckles, made a strange contrast to the man’s long, shriveled limbs. On the rock ledge above them perched three solemn buzzards, which screeched harshly at the sight of the newcomers and flapped away in frustration.

The cries of the birds woke the sleepers, who looked around in confusion. The man staggered to his feet and stared down at the plain that had been empty when he fell asleep but was now filled with a vast crowd of people and animals. His face showed disbelief, and he rubbed his eyes with his bony hand. “This must be what they call delirium,” he muttered. The child clung to his coat and said nothing, her wide eyes full of wonder.

The rescuers quickly convinced the two castaways that what they saw was real. One man lifted the little girl onto his shoulder, while two others supported her gaunt companion and helped him toward the wagons.

“My name’s John Ferrier,” the man said. “The child and I are all that's left of twenty-one people. The rest died of thirst and hunger down south.”

“Is she your child?” someone asked.

“I guess she is now,” he said defiantly. “She’s mine because I saved her. No man will take her from me. She’s Lucy Ferrier from this day on. But who are you?” he added, eyeing his strong, sunburned rescuers with curiosity. “There’s a mighty lot of you.”

“Close to ten thousand,” said one of the young men. “We are the persecuted children of God—the chosen of the Angel Moroni.”

“Never heard of him,” said Ferrier. “Seems he’s chosen quite a crowd.”

“Don’t mock what’s sacred,” the other said sternly. “We believe in the holy writings engraved in Egyptian letters on plates of beaten gold, given to the prophet Joseph Smith at Palmyra. We came from Nauvoo, Illinois, where we built our temple. We’re seeking refuge from the violent and the godless—even if it’s in the heart of the desert.”

The name “Nauvoo” clearly stirred memories for John Ferrier. “I see,” he said. “You’re the Mormons.”

“We are the Mormons,” they answered together.

“And where are you headed?”

“We don’t know. God’s hand is guiding us through our Prophet. You must come before him. He’ll decide what to do with you.”

By now they had reached the base of the hill and were surrounded by crowds of pilgrims—pale, gentle-faced women, strong laughing children, and serious, watchful men. Cries of surprise and pity rose when they saw how young one stranger was and how worn-out the other looked. Their escort didn’t stop but pressed on, followed by a growing crowd of Mormons, until they reached a wagon that stood out for its size and bright decoration. Six horses drew it, while the others had only two or four. Beside the driver sat a man no older than thirty, but his broad head and determined expression marked him as a leader. He was reading a brown-backed book, but when the crowd approached, he set it aside and listened carefully to the account of what had happened. Then he turned to the two castaways.

“If we take you with us,” he said solemnly, “it can only be as believers in our faith. We will not have wolves among our flock. Better that your bones bleach in this wilderness than that you become the small spot of rot that spoils the whole fruit. Will you come with us under those terms?”

“I’ll come with you under any terms,” said Ferrier, with such force that the solemn Elders couldn’t help but smile. Only the leader kept his stern, commanding expression.

“Take him, Brother Stangerson,” he said. “Give him food and drink, and the child as well. It is also your duty to teach him our holy faith. We’ve delayed long enough. Forward! On, on to Zion!”

“On, on to Zion!” shouted the crowd of Mormons. The cry ran down the long caravan, passed from mouth to mouth, and faded into a dull murmur in the distance. With the crack of whips and the creak of wheels, the great wagons began to move, and soon the whole caravan was on the road again. The Elder who had been given charge of the two strays led them to his wagon, where a meal was already waiting.

“You’ll stay here,” he said. “In a few days you’ll have recovered from your exhaustion. In the meantime, remember that from now on and forever you belong to our faith. Brigham Young has said it, and he has spoken with the voice of Joseph Smith, which is the voice of God.”

## Chapter 2 — The Flower Of Utah

This is not the place to recount the hardships and suffering the Mormon immigrants endured before reaching their final refuge. From the banks of the Mississippi to the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains, they pressed onward with a determination rarely seen in history. Wild men and wild beasts, hunger, thirst, exhaustion, and disease—every obstacle nature could hurl against them—had been overcome by their Anglo-Saxon grit. Yet the long journey and its accumulated dangers had shaken even the bravest among them. Each one dropped to their knees in heartfelt prayer when they looked down upon the wide valley of Utah shining in the sunlight and heard their leader declare that this was the promised land, and that these untouched acres would be theirs forever.

Young quickly proved himself not only a determined leader but also a master organizer. Maps and charts were drawn, laying out the plan of the future city. Farms were allotted according to each person’s rank. Tradesmen resumed their crafts, and artisans returned to their work. Streets and squares sprang up as if by magic. Out in the country, there was draining, fencing, planting, and clearing, until by the next summer the whole land was golden with wheat. Everything prospered in the strange new settlement. Above all rose the great temple they were building in the city’s center. From dawn until dusk, the sound of hammers and saws never ceased at the monument the settlers were raising to the One who had brought them safely through so many perils.

The two survivors—John Ferrier and the little girl who had shared his fate and become his adopted daughter—traveled with the Mormons to the end of their great pilgrimage. Little Lucy Ferrier rode comfortably enough in Elder Stangerson’s wagon, sharing the space with the Mormon’s three wives and his bold, headstrong twelve-year-old son. Having recovered, with a child’s resilience, from the shock of her mother’s death, she soon became a favorite among the women and made peace with her new life in the moving, canvas-covered home. Meanwhile, Ferrier, restored to health, proved himself a valuable guide and tireless hunter. He quickly earned the respect of his new companions, and when they reached their destination, it was unanimously decided that he would receive a tract of land as large and fertile as any settler’s—except for Young himself and the four principal Elders: Stangerson, Kemball, Johnston, and Drebber.

On his new land, John Ferrier built a solid log house, which over the years grew with additions into a spacious villa. He was practical, sharp in business, and skilled with his hands. His strong constitution allowed him to work from morning to night improving and cultivating his property. As a result, his farm and all he owned flourished. In three years he was better off than his neighbors, in six he was well-to-do, in nine he was rich, and in twelve there were fewer than half a dozen men in all of Salt Lake City who could compare with him. From the great inland sea to the distant Wahsatch Mountains, no name was better known than John Ferrier’s.

There was only one way in which he offended the feelings of his fellow believers: no persuasion or argument could convince him to take multiple wives like his companions. He never explained his refusal, but simply held to it, firm and unbending. Some accused him of being lukewarm in his adopted faith; others said he was too greedy or too stingy to support a large household. Still others whispered of an old love story and a fair-haired girl who had faded away on the Atlantic coast. Whatever the reason, Ferrier remained single. In every other way he followed the religion of the settlement and was known as a faithful, upright man.

Lucy Ferrier grew up in the log house, helping her adopted father in all his work. The sharp mountain air and the scent of pine trees took the place of nurse and mother for her. Year after year she grew taller and stronger, her cheeks rosier, her step lighter. Many a traveler on the road that ran past Ferrier’s farm felt old memories stir when they saw her slender figure moving through the wheat fields, or met her riding her father’s mustang with the easy grace of a true child of the West. So the bud became a flower, and the year that made her father the richest farmer also made her one of the most beautiful examples of American girlhood on the whole Pacific slope.

It was not her father who first realized that the child had become a woman—fathers rarely do. The change is too gradual, too subtle to be marked by dates. Least of all does the girl herself know it until a voice’s tone or a hand’s touch makes her heart tremble, and she suddenly feels, with a mix of pride and fear, that something new and deeper has awakened within her. Most people can recall the moment when that realization came—the small event that marked the beginning of a new life. For Lucy Ferrier, the occasion was serious enough on its own, even apart from the great effect it would later have on her fate and on the fate of others.

It was a warm June morning, and the Latter Day Saints were as busy as the bees whose hive they had chosen for their symbol. The same hum of work rose from the fields and from the streets. Along the dusty main roads stretched lines of heavily loaded mules heading west, for the gold fever had broken out in California, and the Overland Route passed through the City of the Elect. There were also herds of sheep and cattle coming in from distant pastures, and trains of weary immigrants—men and horses equally worn out by their endless journey. Through this busy, colorful crowd rode Lucy Ferrier, guiding her horse with practiced skill. Her fair face was flushed from the ride, and her long chestnut hair streamed behind her. She was on an errand for her father in the City, and she galloped in as she had many times before, fearless and intent on her task. The travel-stained adventurers turned to stare in amazement, and even the usually stoic Indians, riding in with their furs, softened their expressions as they marveled at the beauty of the pale-faced girl.

She had just reached the edge of the city when she found the road blocked by a large herd of cattle driven by half a dozen rough-looking herdsmen from the plains. Impatient to get through, she tried to push her horse into what looked like a gap. But as soon as she entered, the animals closed in behind her, and she found herself trapped in the moving mass of fierce-eyed, long-horned bullocks.

She knew how to handle cattle, so she was not frightened. She took every chance to urge her horse forward, hoping to push her way through the herd. But the horn of one beast, whether by accident or design, struck the mustang’s flank hard, driving it wild. In an instant, the horse reared on its hind legs with a snort of rage, prancing and tossing so violently that only a very skilled rider could have stayed in the saddle.

The situation was dangerous. Every leap brought the horse’s side against another set of horns, making it even more frantic. The girl could barely keep her seat; a single slip would have meant a terrible death beneath the hooves of the panicked animals. Unused to sudden danger, she began to feel dizzy, her grip on the reins loosening. The dust and heat from the struggling herd nearly choked her, and she might have given up in despair if not for a calm, reassuring voice at her side promising help.

At the same moment, a strong brown hand caught her horse by the bit and, forcing a way through the cattle, quickly brought her out to safety.

“You’re not hurt, I hope, miss,” her rescuer said respectfully.

She looked up at his dark, rugged face and laughed playfully. “I’m terribly frightened,” she said with a grin. “Who would have thought Poncho would get so scared by a herd of cattle?”

“Thank God you stayed in the saddle,” he said earnestly. He was a tall, sturdy young man on a powerful roan horse, dressed like a hunter with a long rifle slung over his shoulder. “I take it you are John Ferrier's daughter,” he added. “I saw you ride down from his place. When you see him, ask if he remembers the Jefferson Hopes from St. Louis. If he’s the same Ferrier, my father and he were close friends.”

“Wouldn’t it be better if you came and asked him yourself?” she said with a shy smile.

The young man looked pleased, his dark eyes lighting up. “I will,” he said. “We’ve been up in the mountains for two months, and we’re not exactly in visiting shape. He’ll have to take us as we are.”

“He owes you a lot, and so do I,” she said warmly. “He’s so fond of me—if those cows had trampled me, he’d never have gotten over it.”

“Neither would I,” her companion said quietly.

“You? I don’t see why it would matter much to you. You’re not even a friend of ours.”

The young hunter’s face darkened at her words, and Lucy Ferrier laughed out loud.

“There, I didn’t mean it like that,” she said quickly. “Of course you’re a friend now. You must come see us. But I have to hurry, or Father won’t trust me with errands anymore. Goodbye!”

“Goodbye,” he said, lifting his wide sombrero and bending over her small hand. She turned her mustang, gave it a flick with her whip, and sped down the broad road in a swirl of dust.

Jefferson Hope rode on with his companions, silent and brooding. They had been prospecting for silver in the Nevada Mountains and were now returning to Salt Lake City, hoping to raise money to work some lodes they had found. He had been as eager as any of them about the venture—until this sudden encounter changed everything.

The sight of the beautiful, open-hearted girl, as fresh and pure as the mountain air, had shaken his wild, untamed nature to its core. When she disappeared from view, he knew his life had reached a turning point. Silver and business no longer mattered. Nothing could compare to this new, overwhelming feeling. The love that had taken root in his heart was no passing fancy—it was the fierce, determined passion of a strong-willed man accustomed to getting what he wanted. He swore to himself that he would not fail in this, no matter how much effort or persistence it took.

That evening he called on John Ferrier, and after that, many times more, until his visits became a familiar part of life at the farmhouse. John, shut away in the valley and buried in his work, had heard little of the outside world for twelve years. Jefferson Hope told him everything—stories that fascinated both father and daughter.

He had been a pioneer in California and could tell endless tales of fortunes made and lost in those wild early days. He had also been a scout, a trapper, a silver prospector, and a rancher. Wherever adventure could be found, Jefferson Hope had gone in search of it.


He soon became a favorite of the old farmer, who often praised his courage and character. Lucy said nothing at such times, but her blushing cheeks and shining eyes revealed her feelings clearly enough. Her honest father might not have noticed, but the man who had won her heart certainly did.

One summer evening, Jefferson came galloping down the road and stopped at the gate. Lucy was standing in the doorway and came down to meet him. He threw his bridle over the fence and walked quickly up the path.

“I’m leaving, Lucy,” he said, taking both her hands and looking tenderly into her face. “I won’t ask you to come with me now, but will you be ready when I return?”

“And when will that be?” she asked, blushing and smiling.

“In two months at most. I’ll come then and claim you, my darling. No one will be able to stand between us.”

“And what about Father?” she asked.

“He’s given his consent, as long as we get these mines running properly. I’m not worried about that.”

“Oh, well—if you and Father have worked everything out, there’s nothing more to say,” she whispered, resting her cheek against his broad chest.

“Thank God,” he said hoarsely, bending to kiss her. “So it’s settled. The longer I stay, the harder it’ll be to leave. They’re waiting for me at the cañon. Goodbye, my darling—goodbye. You’ll see me in two months.”

He pulled himself away from her, mounted his horse, and rode off at full speed, not once looking back, afraid his resolve might break if he saw what he was leaving behind. She stood at the gate, watching until he disappeared from view. Then she went back into the house—the happiest girl in all Utah.

## Chapter 3 — John Ferrier Talks With The Prophet

Three weeks had passed since Jefferson Hope and his companions had left Salt Lake City. John Ferrier’s heart ached whenever he thought about the young man’s return and the coming loss of his adopted daughter. Still, her bright and happy face comforted him more than any argument could. Deep down, he had always sworn that nothing would ever make him let his daughter marry a Mormon. To him, such a union wasn’t a real marriage at all—it was a shame and a disgrace. Whatever he thought about Mormon beliefs, on that point he would never bend. Yet he had to keep silent, because voicing an unorthodox opinion in those days in the Land of the Saints was dangerous.

Yes, dangerous—so dangerous that even the most devout whispered their private thoughts in fear, afraid that a single careless word might be twisted and bring swift punishment. The once-persecuted had become persecutors themselves, and of the most terrifying kind. Not the Inquisition of Seville, nor the German Vehmgericht, nor the secret societies of Italy had ever created a more dreadful system than the one that cast its shadow over Utah.

Its secrecy and mystery made it even more terrifying. It seemed all-knowing and all-powerful, yet no one ever saw or heard it directly. A man who defied the Church simply disappeared. No one knew where he went or what became of him. His wife and children waited at home, but no father ever returned to tell what had happened before those hidden judges. A careless word or reckless act could mean complete destruction, yet no one knew what form that destruction would take. It was no wonder that people lived in constant fear, unable even in the wilderness to whisper the doubts that tormented them.

At first, this shadowy power struck only at those who had joined the Mormon faith and later tried to abandon or distort it. But soon its reach grew wider. There were not enough adult women, and polygamy without women to marry was an empty doctrine. Strange rumors began to spread—rumors of murdered travelers and looted camps in places where no Indians had ever been seen. New women appeared in the Elders’ households—women who wept and wasted away, their faces marked with unending horror. Late-night travelers in the mountains spoke of bands of masked, armed men moving silently through the darkness. These tales multiplied, confirmed again and again, until they formed a clear identity. Even today, in the lonely ranches of the West, the name “Danite Band” or “Avenging Angels” is spoken with dread.

The more people learned about the organization behind these horrors, the greater their fear grew. No one knew who belonged to it. The names of those who committed bloodshed and violence in the name of religion were kept utterly secret. The very friend you confided in about your doubts of the Prophet might be one of those who came at night with fire and sword to exact vengeance. So everyone feared his neighbor, and no one dared speak of what lay closest to his heart.

One bright morning, John Ferrier was about to head to his wheat fields when he heard the latch click. Looking out the window, he saw a stout, sandy-haired, middle-aged man walking up the path. His heart jumped—this was none other than Brigham Young himself. Alarmed—for he knew such a visit rarely meant good news—Ferrier hurried to the door to greet the Mormon leader. But Brigham Young accepted his greeting coldly and followed him into the sitting room with a stern expression.

“Brother Ferrier,” he said, sitting down and studying the farmer keenly from under his pale lashes, “the true believers have been good friends to you. We rescued you when you were starving in the desert. We shared our food, led you safely to the Chosen Valley, gave you a fine piece of land, and let you grow rich under our protection. Isn’t that true?”

“It is,” John Ferrier replied.

“In return, we asked only one thing: that you embrace the true faith and live by its customs. You promised to do this, yet if what people say is true, you’ve failed.”

“How have I failed?” Ferrier protested, spreading his hands. “Haven’t I given to the common fund? Haven’t I attended the Temple? Haven’t I—?”

“Where are your wives?” Brigham Young interrupted, glancing around. “Call them in so I may greet them.”

“It’s true I haven’t married,” Ferrier admitted. “But women were few, and many others had stronger claims. I wasn’t alone—I had my daughter to care for me.”

“It’s about that daughter that I’ve come to speak,” said the Mormon leader. “She’s grown into the flower of Utah and has caught the eye of many important men.”

John Ferrier groaned inwardly.

“There are stories about her that I’d rather not believe—rumors that she’s been sealed to a Gentile. That must be idle gossip. What is the thirteenth rule of the sainted Joseph Smith’s code? ‘Let every maiden of the true faith marry one of the elect; for if she weds a Gentile, she commits a grievous sin.’ Knowing this, it’s impossible that you, a professed believer, would allow your daughter to break that law.”

Ferrier said nothing. He fidgeted nervously with his riding whip.

“On this point your faith will be tested,” Brigham Young continued. “The Sacred Council of Four has decided so. The girl is young, and we don’t wish to bind her to old age, nor deprive her of all choice. We Elders already have many wives, but our sons must also be provided for. Stangerson has a son, and Drebber has a son. Either would gladly welcome your daughter into his home. Let her choose between them. They are young, wealthy, and true believers. What do you say to that?”

Heber C. Kemball, in one of his sermons, affectionately referred to his hundred wives with this term of endearment.

Ferrier stayed silent for a while, his brow furrowed in thought.

“You’ll give us some time,” he said finally. “My daughter is very young—barely old enough to marry.”

“She has one month to decide,” said Young, standing up. “At the end of that time, she’ll give her answer.”

He was leaving the room when he turned back, his face flushed and his eyes blazing. “It would be better for you, John Ferrier,” he thundered, “if you and your daughter were lying as bleached skeletons on the Sierra Blanco right now, than if you dared to set your weak wills against the orders of the Holy Four!”

With a threatening wave of his hand, he turned and left. Ferrier heard his heavy footsteps crunching down the gravel path.

Ferrier sat with his elbows on his knees, thinking about how to tell his daughter what had happened, when a soft hand touched his. Looking up, he saw her standing beside him. One look at her pale, frightened face told him she had heard everything.

“I couldn’t help it,” she said, answering his look. “His voice echoed through the whole house. Oh, Father—what are we going to do?”

“Don’t you worry yourself,” he said, pulling her close and running his rough, broad hand gently over her chestnut hair. “We’ll figure something out. You haven’t lost your feelings for that young man, have you?”

She only sobbed and squeezed his hand.

“No, of course not. I’d hate to hear you say otherwise. He’s a fine lad, and he’s a Christian—which is more than I can say for these folks, with all their praying and preaching. There’s a group heading for Nevada tomorrow, and I’ll find a way to send him a message about the trouble we’re in. If I know that young man, he’ll be back here faster than any telegraph.”

Lucy laughed through her tears at her father’s description.

“When he comes, he’ll know what’s best to do. But, Father, I’m scared for you. People tell such awful stories about what happens to those who go against the Prophet—something terrible always happens.”

“But we haven’t gone against him yet,” her father replied. “We’ll worry about that when the time comes. We’ve got a whole month ahead of us. When that’s up, I think we’d better get out of Utah.”

“Leave Utah?”

“That’s about right.”

“But the farm?”

“We’ll sell what we can for cash and forget the rest. Honestly, Lucy, I’ve thought about leaving before. I don’t like bowing down to any man the way these people do to their so-called prophet. I’m a free-born American, and this kind of thing doesn’t sit right with me. I’m too old to change now. If he starts snooping around this farm, he might find himself facing a load of buckshot coming the other way.”

“But they won’t let us leave,” his daughter protested.

“Wait till Jefferson gets here—we’ll handle it then. In the meantime, don’t worry, sweetheart, and don’t cry yourself red-eyed, or he’ll blame me when he sees you. There’s nothing to be afraid of, no danger at all.”

John Ferrier spoke these comforting words with great confidence, but Lucy couldn’t help noticing that he took unusual care locking the doors that night—and that he carefully cleaned and loaded the old rusty shotgun hanging on his bedroom wall.

## Chapter 4 — A Flight For Life

The morning after his meeting with the Mormon Prophet, John Ferrier rode into Salt Lake City. He found his acquaintance bound for the Nevada Mountains and sent with him a message for Jefferson Hope, warning the young man of the danger threatening them and urging his immediate return. Having done this, Ferrier felt calmer and rode home with a lighter heart.

As he neared his farm, he was surprised to see a horse tied to each gatepost. His surprise turned to anger when he entered the house and found two young men sitting in his living room. One, pale-faced and long-featured, lounged back in a rocking chair with his feet on the stove. The other, a thick-necked youth with coarse, bloated features, stood by the window with his hands in his pockets, whistling a popular hymn. Both nodded as Ferrier entered, and the one in the chair began to speak.

“Maybe you don’t know us,” he said. “This here is Elder Drebber’s son, and I’m Joseph Stangerson. We traveled with you in the desert when the Lord reached out His hand and brought you into the true faith.”

“As He will bring all nations in His own time,” said the other in a nasal tone. “He grinds slowly but very fine.”

John Ferrier bowed coldly. He already guessed who they were.

“We’ve come,” continued Stangerson, “by our fathers’ advice, to ask for your daughter’s hand—whichever of us you and she decide is best. Since I have only four wives and Brother Drebber here has seven, I think my claim is stronger.”

“No, no, Brother Stangerson,” Drebber protested. “It’s not about how many wives we have, but how many we can support. My father has turned his mills over to me, and I’m the richer man.”

“But my prospects are better,” Stangerson shot back. “When the Lord calls my father home, I’ll inherit his tannery and leather factory. Besides, I’m older than you and higher in the Church.”

“The maiden will decide,” said young Drebber, smirking at his reflection in the mirror. “We’ll leave it to her choice.”

During this exchange, John Ferrier stood fuming in the doorway, barely restraining himself from striking the two men with his riding whip.

“Listen here,” he said at last, stepping forward. “When my daughter sends for you, you can come. Until then, I don’t want to see your faces again.”

The two young Mormons stared at him in shock. To them, competing for the girl’s hand was a great honor to both her and her father.

“There are two ways out of this room,” Ferrier said sharply. “The door and the window. Which one will you use?”

His face looked so fierce and his hands so threatening that the visitors jumped up and hurried out. Ferrier followed them to the door.

“Let me know when you’ve decided which of you it’s to be,” he said sarcastically.

“You’ll pay for this!” Stangerson shouted, pale with rage. “You’ve defied the Prophet and the Council of Four. You’ll regret it for the rest of your life.”

“The hand of the Lord will be heavy upon you!” cried young Drebber. “He will rise and strike you down!”

“Then I’ll start the striking!” Ferrier roared, rushing toward the stairs for his gun. Lucy grabbed his arm and held him back. Before he could break free, the sound of galloping hooves told him the men were already gone.

“The sanctimonious scoundrels!” he exclaimed, wiping the sweat from his forehead. “I’d rather see you in your grave, my girl, than married to either of them.”

“And so would I, Father,” she replied firmly. “But Jefferson will be here soon.”

“Yes. It won’t be long before he comes. The sooner the better—we don’t know what those men will try next.”

It was indeed time for someone capable of helping and advising them to arrive. In all the history of the settlement, no one had ever defied the Elders so openly. If small offenses were punished harshly, what fate awaited this open rebel? Ferrier knew his wealth and position wouldn’t protect him. Others just as rich and respected had vanished before, their property handed over to the Church. He was a brave man, but he trembled at the vague, unseen dangers surrounding him. He could face any clear threat, but this uncertainty unnerved him. Still, he hid his fear from his daughter and pretended to take the matter lightly, though she, with the sharp perception of love, saw clearly that he was uneasy.

He expected a message or reprimand from Young about his conduct, and he wasn’t wrong, though it arrived in an unexpected way. When he woke the next morning, he was startled to find a small square of paper pinned to the blanket over his chest. On it, in large uneven letters, were the words:

“Twenty-nine days are given you for amendment, and then——”

The dash was more terrifying than any written threat. How the warning had entered his locked room baffled him. His servants slept in an outbuilding, and all doors and windows had been secured. He crumpled the paper and said nothing to his daughter, but his heart grew cold with dread. The twenty-nine days clearly referred to the time Young had granted him. What strength or courage could stand against an enemy with such mysterious power? The same hand that pinned the note could have struck him dead, and he would never have known by whom.

He was even more shaken the next morning. As they sat down to breakfast, Lucy suddenly cried out and pointed upward. In the center of the ceiling, written apparently with a burned stick, was the number 28. She didn’t understand its meaning, and he didn’t explain. That night he sat up with his gun, keeping watch. He saw and heard nothing, yet in the morning a large 27 had been painted on the outside of his door.

Day after day passed, and every morning he discovered that his unseen enemies had kept their tally. Somewhere in plain sight they had marked how many days of his “month of grace” still remained. Sometimes the fatal numbers appeared on the walls, sometimes on the floors, and sometimes on small signs stuck to the garden gate or railings. No matter how watchful John Ferrier was, he couldn’t find out where these daily warnings came from. A horror, almost superstitious in its intensity, seized him whenever he saw them. He grew gaunt and restless, his eyes taking on the haunted look of a hunted animal. His only hope now was the arrival of the young hunter from Nevada.

Twenty became fifteen, fifteen became ten, and still there was no word from the missing man. The numbers kept dwindling, but no sign came. Whenever a horseman clattered down the road or a driver shouted to his team, the old farmer rushed to the gate, sure that help had finally arrived. But when the number five gave way to four, and then to three, he lost heart and gave up hope of escape. Alone, and knowing little about the mountains surrounding the settlement, he realized he was helpless. The main roads were carefully watched and guarded, and no one could pass without an order from the Council. Whichever way he turned, there seemed no way to escape the blow hanging over him. Yet the old man never wavered in his resolve—he would rather die than consent to what he saw as his daughter’s disgrace.

One evening he sat alone, thinking deeply about his troubles and searching in vain for some way out. That morning, the number 2 had appeared on his wall, meaning the next day would be his last. What would happen then? His imagination filled with vague, terrible possibilities. And his daughter—what would become of her once he was gone? Was there truly no escape from the invisible net closing around them? He dropped his head onto the table and sobbed, overcome by his own helplessness.

What was that? In the silence he heard a faint scratching—soft but clear in the quiet night. It came from the door. Ferrier crept into the hall and listened. There was a short pause, then the sound came again, a gentle tapping on one of the door panels. Was it a midnight assassin sent to carry out the secret tribunal’s orders? Or someone marking that the last day of grace had arrived? John Ferrier felt that sudden death would be better than this paralyzing suspense. He lunged forward, drew the bolt, and flung the door open.

Outside, everything was still. The night was calm, the stars shone brightly overhead. The little front garden lay quiet within its fence and gate. No one was on the road, no one in sight. With a sigh of relief, Ferrier glanced right and left—then looked down and froze. At his feet lay a man flat on his face, arms and legs sprawled out.

The sight shook him so badly that he leaned against the wall, pressing his hand to his throat to stifle a cry. His first thought was that the man was wounded or dying. But then he saw the figure wriggle forward across the ground and into the hall with the speed and silence of a snake. Once inside, the man sprang to his feet, shut the door, and revealed the fierce, determined face of Jefferson Hope.

“Good God!” gasped John Ferrier. “You frightened me half to death! Why on earth did you come in like that?”

“Food,” the other said hoarsely. “I haven’t eaten or drunk a thing for forty-eight hours.” He threw himself on the cold meat and bread still lying on the table from Ferrier’s supper and devoured them greedily. “How’s Lucy holding up?” he asked once his hunger was satisfied.

“She’s fine. She doesn’t know the danger,” her father replied.

“That’s good. The house is watched on all sides—that’s why I had to crawl my way here. They’re sharp, but not quite sharp enough to catch a Washoe hunter.”

John Ferrier felt like a new man, knowing he had a loyal ally. He gripped the young man’s rough hand and shook it warmly. “You’re someone to be proud of,” he said. “Not many would risk so much to share our danger.”

“You’re right about that, partner,” the hunter replied. “I’ve got respect for you, but if you were alone in this, I’d think twice before sticking my head into such a hornet’s nest. It’s Lucy that brought me here. Before harm comes to her, there’ll be one less Hope in Utah.”

“What should we do?”

“Tomorrow’s your last day. If we don’t act tonight, you’re finished. I’ve got a mule and two horses waiting in Eagle Ravine. How much money do you have?”

“Two thousand dollars in gold, and five thousand in notes.”

“That’s enough. I’ve got about the same. We’ll head for Carson City through the mountains. You’d better wake Lucy. It’s just as well the servants don’t sleep in the house.”

While Ferrier went to prepare his daughter for the journey, Jefferson Hope packed all the food he could find into a small bundle and filled a stone jar with water, knowing how scarce wells were in the mountains. He had barely finished when the farmer returned with Lucy, already dressed and ready to go. The lovers greeted each other warmly but briefly—every minute mattered, and there was much to do.

“We have to leave right away,” said Jefferson Hope in a low, steady voice. He knew the danger but had steeled himself to face it. “The front and back doors are watched, but if we’re careful, we can get out through the side window and cross the fields. Once we reach the road, it’s only two miles to the Ravine where the horses are waiting. By dawn, we should be halfway through the mountains.”

“What if we get stopped?” asked Ferrier.

Hope tapped the handle of the revolver sticking out from the front of his tunic. “If there are too many for us, we’ll take two or three of them with us,” he said with a grim smile.

All the lights inside the house were out. From the dark window, Ferrier looked over the fields that had once been his and that he was now leaving forever. He had long since steeled himself for the sacrifice, and the thought of his daughter’s safety and happiness outweighed any regret for his lost fortune. Everything looked so peaceful—the rustling trees, the wide, silent stretch of grain—that it was hard to believe that murder lurked nearby. But the pale, determined face of the young hunter showed he had seen enough on his way to the house to know the danger was real.

Ferrier carried the bag of gold and notes. Jefferson Hope had the small supply of food and water, while Lucy held a little bundle of her most precious belongings. They opened the window slowly and quietly, waiting until a dark cloud dimmed the night before slipping one by one into the small garden. Holding their breath and crouching low, they stumbled across it and reached the shelter of the hedge. They followed it until they came to the gap leading into the cornfields. Just as they reached it, the young man grabbed his two companions and pulled them down into the shadow, where they lay trembling in silence.

It was a good thing Jefferson Hope’s prairie training had given him the hearing of a lynx. They had barely crouched down when the mournful hoot of a mountain owl sounded just a few yards away, and another hoot answered from a short distance off. At that same moment, a dim figure stepped out from the very gap they had been heading for and gave the same plaintive call again. Another man appeared from the darkness.

“Tomorrow at midnight,” said the first, who seemed to be in charge. “When the Whip-poor-Will calls three times.”

“Good,” replied the other. “Shall I tell Brother Drebber?”

“Pass it to him, and from him to the others. Nine to seven!”

“Seven to five!” repeated the second, and both figures slipped away in different directions. Their last words were clearly a kind of code and countersign. The moment their footsteps faded into the distance, Jefferson Hope jumped to his feet, helped his companions through the gap, and led them across the fields as fast as he could, half-carrying the girl when her strength began to fail.

“Keep going! Keep going!” he gasped from time to time. “We’re past the line of guards. Everything depends on speed. Hurry!”

Once they reached the main road, they moved quickly. Only once did they meet anyone, and they managed to slip into a field and avoid being seen. Before they reached the town, the hunter turned onto a rough, narrow path that led toward the mountains. Two dark, jagged peaks loomed above them, and the pass between them was Eagle Cañon, where the horses were waiting. With perfect instinct, Jefferson Hope found his way among the huge boulders and along the dry bed of a stream until they reached a secluded spot hidden by rocks, where the loyal animals were tied. The girl was placed on the mule, old Ferrier on one of the horses with his money bag, and Jefferson Hope led the other along the steep, dangerous trail.

It was a bewildering route for anyone not used to facing nature at her wildest. On one side, a massive cliff rose a thousand feet or more—black, harsh, and threatening, with long basalt columns like the ribs of some petrified giant. On the other side lay a tangle of rocks and debris that made any other path impossible. Between them ran the uneven track, sometimes so narrow they had to ride single file, and so rough that only skilled riders could have made it through. Yet despite the danger and difficulty, the fugitives’ hearts were light, because every step took them farther from the tyranny they were escaping.

But soon they had proof that they were still within the reach of the Saints. They had reached the most desolate part of the pass when the girl suddenly cried out and pointed upward. On a rock overlooking the trail, standing out dark against the sky, was a lone sentinel. He spotted them as soon as they saw him, and his sharp challenge—“Who goes there?”—echoed through the silent ravine.

“Travelers bound for Nevada,” said Jefferson Hope, his hand resting on the rifle hanging by his saddle.

They could see the lone guard fingering his gun and peering down suspiciously.

“By whose permission?” he demanded.

“The Holy Four,” answered Ferrier. His Mormon experience had taught him that this was the highest authority he could name.

“Nine from seven,” called the sentinel.

“Seven from five,” Jefferson Hope replied quickly, remembering the countersign he had overheard in the garden.

“Pass, and may the Lord go with you,” came the voice from above. Beyond his post, the path widened, and the horses broke into a trot. Looking back, they saw the solitary guard leaning on his gun and knew they had passed the outer post of the chosen people—and that freedom lay ahead.

All night they traveled through winding gorges and over rough, rocky trails. More than once they lost their way, but Hope’s deep knowledge of the mountains helped them find the path again. When morning came, a scene of wild, breathtaking beauty stretched before them. Snow-covered peaks surrounded them on every side, each one rising behind the other to the far horizon. The cliffs were so steep that the larches and pines seemed to hang over their heads, needing only a gust of wind to come crashing down. The danger wasn’t imaginary either—the barren valley was littered with fallen trees and boulders that had tumbled down in the same way. Even as they passed, a huge rock came roaring down with a harsh rumble that echoed through the silent gorges and startled the tired horses into a gallop.

As the sun slowly rose above the eastern horizon, the mountain tops lit up one by one, like lamps being lit for a celebration, until they all glowed red and golden. The magnificent sight lifted the spirits of the three fugitives and gave them new strength. At a wild torrent rushing out of a ravine, they stopped to water their horses and grab a quick breakfast. Lucy and her father would have liked to rest longer, but Jefferson Hope was firm. “They’ll be on our trail by now,” he said. “Everything depends on how fast we move. Once we reach Carson safely, we can rest for the rest of our lives.”

All that day they pressed on through the mountain passes, and by evening they estimated they were over thirty miles ahead of their pursuers. That night they camped at the base of a jutting cliff, where the rocks gave some shelter from the cold wind. Huddled together for warmth, they managed a few hours of sleep. Before dawn, they were up and moving again. They had seen no sign of anyone following them, and Jefferson Hope began to believe they had escaped the reach of the terrible organization whose hatred they had earned. He had no idea how far that iron grip could stretch—or how soon it would close around them.

By the middle of the second day, their small supply of food was running low. The hunter wasn’t too worried, though—there was plenty of game in the mountains, and he had often relied on his rifle to keep himself alive. Finding a sheltered spot, he piled some dry branches into a fire so his companions could warm themselves. They were nearly five thousand feet above sea level now, and the air was sharp and cold. After tethering the horses and saying goodbye to Lucy, he slung his gun over his shoulder and set off to see what he could find. Looking back, he saw the old man and the young woman crouched beside the fire, with the three horses standing still behind them. Then the rocks hid them from sight.

He walked for a couple of miles through one ravine after another without success, though signs on the tree trunks and other clues told him there were plenty of bears nearby. After two or three hours of fruitless hunting, he was about to turn back in frustration when he looked up and saw something that sent a thrill through him. On the edge of a rocky peak, three or four hundred feet above, stood an animal that looked like a sheep but had enormous curved horns. It was a big-horn, likely standing guard over a hidden flock. Fortunately, it was facing away from him and hadn’t noticed his presence. Lying flat on the ground, he rested his rifle on a rock, took careful aim, and fired. The animal leapt into the air, staggered for a second on the cliff’s edge, then fell crashing down into the valley below.

It was too heavy to carry, so the hunter cut off one haunch and part of the flank. With this load over his shoulder, he started back quickly, as evening was closing in. But he soon realized the trouble he was in. In his excitement he had wandered far beyond the ravines he knew, and now it was hard to find his way back. The valley branched into many gorges, all so alike that he couldn’t tell one from another. He followed one for over a mile until he came to a mountain stream he was sure he’d never seen before. Realizing he’d taken the wrong turn, he tried another, with the same result. Darkness was falling fast, and it was nearly night before he finally entered a pass he recognized. Even then, it was hard to stay on track—the moon hadn’t risen yet, and the high cliffs made the darkness even deeper. Weighed down by his burden and exhausted, he stumbled forward, comforting himself with the thought that every step brought him closer to Lucy—and that he carried enough food to sustain them for the rest of their journey.

At last he reached the entrance of the very gorge where he had left them. Even in the dark he could make out the shapes of the cliffs. They must be waiting for him anxiously, he thought, since he’d been gone nearly five hours. Joyful at the thought, he cupped his hands to his mouth and shouted, his voice echoing through the canyon to signal his return. He paused to listen for an answer. None came—only his own voice bouncing back from the cold, empty rocks in countless echoes. He called again, louder this time, but still no reply came from the friends he had left only a few hours earlier. A vague, terrible fear gripped him, and he rushed forward in panic, dropping the meat he had carried so carefully.

When he rounded the bend, he saw the spot where the fire had been. A pile of glowing ashes remained, but it was clear no one had tended it since he left. The same dead silence hung over everything. His fear turned to certainty, and he ran forward. There was no living thing near the fire—no people, no animals, nothing. It was horribly clear that some sudden, dreadful disaster had struck while he was gone—one that had taken them all and left no trace behind.

Jefferson Hope was dazed and reeling from the shock. His head spun, and he had to lean on his rifle to keep from collapsing. But he was a man of action, and he quickly pulled himself together. Grabbing a half-burned stick from the dying fire, he blew it back into flame and used it to inspect the small camp. The ground was trampled with horse tracks—clear proof that a large group of mounted men had caught up with the fugitives. The direction of the prints showed that they had then turned back toward Salt Lake City.

Had they taken both of his companions with them? Hope was almost convinced they must have when his eyes caught something that made every nerve in his body tighten. A short distance from the camp lay a small mound of reddish earth that definitely hadn’t been there before. There was no mistaking it for anything but a freshly dug grave. As he approached, he saw a stick planted in the mound with a piece of paper wedged in its fork. The message was short and clear:

JOHN FERRIER,
FORMERLY OF SALT LAKE CITY,
Died August 4th, 1860.

The strong old man he had left only a short time ago was gone, and this was all that marked his resting place. Hope looked wildly around for another grave, but there was none. Lucy had been taken back by their ruthless pursuers to meet her original fate—forced to become one of the Elder’s son’s wives. As the young man grasped the certainty of her doom and his own helplessness, he wished he were lying there beside the old farmer in that silent grave.

But his restless spirit soon threw off the despair. If nothing else was left to him, he could still live for revenge. Along with his patience and persistence, Hope had learned from the Native tribes a fierce and enduring sense of vengeance. Standing by the dying fire, he felt that only complete retribution, carried out by his own hand, could ease his grief. He resolved to dedicate all his strength and will to that single purpose. With a grim, pale face, he went back to where he had dropped the food. After reviving the fire, he cooked enough to last several days, tied it into a bundle, and, weary as he was, began the long trek through the mountains to follow the trail of the “avenging angels.”

For five days he trudged through the narrow mountain passes he had once crossed on horseback, his feet sore and his body aching. At night he collapsed among the rocks for a few hours of sleep, but before dawn he was always moving again. On the sixth day, he reached Eagle Cañon, where their doomed escape had begun. From there, he could look down at the city of the Saints. Exhausted, he leaned on his rifle and shook his thin, trembling hand in fury at the silent, sprawling city below. He noticed flags flying in some of the main streets and other signs of celebration. He was still wondering what it meant when he heard the sound of hooves and saw a rider approaching. As the man came closer, Hope recognized him as Cowper, a Mormon he had helped several times before. Hope stopped him, desperate to learn what had become of Lucy Ferrier.

“I’m Jefferson Hope,” he said. “You remember me.”

Cowper stared at him in open shock. It was hard to recognize in this ragged, wild-eyed wanderer the neat young hunter of earlier days. Once he was sure it really was Hope, his surprise turned to alarm.

“You’re crazy to come here,” he said. “It’s as much as my life’s worth to be seen talking to you. There’s a warrant out for you from the Holy Four for helping the Ferriers escape.”

“I don’t fear them or their warrant,” Hope said urgently. “You must know something, Cowper. I’m begging you—answer a few questions for me. We’ve always been friends. For God’s sake, don’t turn me away.”

“What is it?” Cowper asked nervously. “Be quick—the rocks have ears and the trees have eyes.”

“What happened to Lucy Ferrier?”

“She was married yesterday to young Drebber. Hold on, man—steady—you look half-dead.”

“Don’t worry about me,” Hope said faintly. His face was bloodless, and he slid down against a rock. “Married, you said?”

“Married yesterday—that’s what the flags are for at the Endowment House. There was some argument between Drebber and Stangerson over who would get her. They were both in the group that caught you, and Stangerson shot her father, which they said gave him the better claim. But when it went to council, Drebber’s side had more influence, so the Prophet gave her to him. She won’t live long, though—I saw death in her face yesterday. She looks more like a ghost than a woman. Are you leaving?”

“Yes, I’m leaving,” Jefferson Hope said, standing up. His face looked carved from stone, hard and cold, and his eyes burned with a deadly light.

“Where are you going?”

“Never mind,” he said. Slinging his rifle over his shoulder, he strode down the gorge and disappeared into the mountains—into the wilderness of wild beasts, none of which were fiercer or more dangerous than he was.

The Mormon’s prediction came true. Whether it was her father’s horrific death or the forced marriage she hated, poor Lucy never recovered. She faded away and died within a month. Her drunken husband, who had married her mainly for John Ferrier’s property, showed little grief at her death. But his other wives mourned her and kept vigil beside her body the night before the burial, as Mormon custom required.

They were gathered around the bier in the early morning hours when, to their shock and terror, the door burst open. A rough, weather-beaten man in torn clothes strode into the room. Without a word or even a glance at the frightened women, he walked straight to the still, white figure that had once been Lucy Ferrier. Bending over her, he pressed his lips gently to her cold forehead. Then, grabbing her hand, he pulled the wedding ring from her finger.

“She won’t be buried in that,” he growled fiercely. Before anyone could react, he dashed down the stairs and was gone.

The moment was so sudden and strange that the women might have doubted it had really happened—if not for the undeniable fact that the gold ring marking her as a bride had vanished.

For several months, Jefferson Hope stayed hidden in the mountains, living a wild, lonely life while feeding the fierce desire for revenge that consumed him. Stories spread through the City about a strange figure seen roaming the outskirts and haunting the remote mountain passes. Once, a bullet whistled through Stangerson’s window and flattened itself against the wall less than a foot from him. On another occasion, as Drebber walked beneath a cliff, a huge boulder crashed down, and he escaped death only by throwing himself flat on the ground.

The two young Mormons quickly realized who was behind these attacks. They led repeated expeditions into the mountains, hoping to capture or kill their enemy, but they always failed. After that, they took precautions—never going out alone or after dark and keeping guards around their houses. Eventually, since nothing more was seen or heard of their pursuer, they relaxed their vigilance, believing time had cooled his fury.

In fact, time had only made it worse. Hope’s mind was tough and unbending, and revenge had taken such complete control of it that no


## Chapter 5 — The Avenging Angels

Once again the avenger was thwarted, and once again his burning hatred drove him to continue the chase. But he lacked money. For a time, he returned to work, saving every dollar for the journey ahead. At last, when he had enough to keep himself alive, he set out for Europe. He tracked his enemies from city to city, taking whatever menial jobs he could find, but he never quite caught up with them. When he reached St. Petersburg, they had already gone to Paris. When he followed them there, he learned they had just left for Copenhagen. In the Danish capital, he arrived a few days too late again—they had moved on to London, where he finally succeeded in running them to ground.

As for what happened there, we can do no better than to quote the old hunter’s own account, faithfully recorded in Dr. Watson’s journal, to which we already owe so much.

## Chapter 6 — A Continuation Of The Reminiscences Of John Watson, M.D.

Our prisoner’s furious struggle didn’t seem to show any real hostility toward us. Once he realized he couldn’t win, he smiled politely and hoped he hadn’t hurt anyone during the fight.
“I suppose you’re taking me to the police station,” he said to Sherlock Holmes. “My cab’s outside. If you untie my legs, I’ll walk down to it. I’m not as easy to lift as I used to be.”

Gregson and Lestrade exchanged looks, thinking this a bold request. But Holmes immediately agreed and loosened the towel we had tied around the man’s ankles. The prisoner stood up and stretched his legs, testing his freedom. As I watched him, I thought I had rarely seen a more powerfully built man. His dark, sunburned face showed a look of determination and energy that was as intimidating as his physical strength.

“If there’s ever an opening for chief of police, you’re the man for it,” he said, looking at Holmes with open admiration. “The way you tracked me down was something else.”

“You’d better come with me,” Holmes said to the two detectives.

“I can drive,” said Lestrade.

“Good. Gregson can ride inside with me. You too, Doctor—you’ve been involved in the case, so you might as well stay with us.”

I agreed gladly, and we all went downstairs together. The prisoner made no attempt to escape. He calmly stepped into his own cab, and we followed him. Lestrade climbed onto the driver’s seat, flicked the reins, and in a few minutes we reached our destination. We were shown into a small room where a police inspector recorded our prisoner’s name and the names of the men he was accused of murdering. The inspector was a pale, emotionless man who went about his work in a dull, mechanical way.

“The prisoner will appear before the magistrates later this week,” he said. “In the meantime, Mr. Jefferson Hope, do you have anything you wish to say? I must warn you that anything you say will be written down and may be used against you.”

“I’ve got a lot to say,” the prisoner replied slowly. “I want to tell you gentlemen the whole story.”

“Wouldn’t it be better to save that for your trial?” asked the inspector.

“I might never be tried,” he said. “Don’t look so startled. I’m not thinking about suicide. Are you a doctor?” He turned his intense dark eyes on me as he asked.

“Yes, I am,” I replied.

“Then put your hand here,” he said with a faint smile, raising his manacled wrists toward his chest.

I did as he asked and immediately felt a strange, violent throbbing inside. The walls of his chest seemed to tremble like a building shaking under the force of a huge engine. In the silence of the room, I could hear a dull humming and buzzing sound coming from the same place.

“Why,” I exclaimed, “you have an aortic aneurysm!”

“That’s what they call it,” he said calmly. “I went to a doctor last week, and he told me it would burst within a few days. It’s been getting worse for years. I got it from exposure and starvation up in the Salt Lake Mountains. My work’s done now, and I don’t care how soon I die, but I’d like to leave a record of what happened. I don’t want to be remembered as just a common murderer.”

The inspector and the two detectives quickly discussed whether to let him tell his story.

“Doctor, do you think there’s immediate danger?” the inspector asked.

“Most certainly,” I said.

“In that case, it’s clearly our duty, in the interest of justice, to take his statement,” said the inspector. “You’re free to tell your story, but I warn you again—it will be written down.”

“I’ll sit down, if you don’t mind,” the prisoner said, doing so. “This aneurysm makes me tire easily, and that fight we had half an hour ago didn’t help. I’m standing at death’s door, and I’m not about to lie to you. Every word I say is the truth, and what you do with it doesn’t matter to me.”

With that, Jefferson Hope leaned back in his chair and began his remarkable statement. He spoke calmly and methodically, as if what he described were nothing unusual. I can confirm the accuracy of the following account, since I’ve seen Lestrade’s notebook, where the prisoner’s exact words were written down.

“It doesn’t really matter to you why I hated those men,” he began. “It’s enough that they caused the deaths of two people—a father and a daughter—and for that, they deserved to die. After all the time that’s passed since their crime, there was no chance of convicting them in any court. But I knew they were guilty, and I decided that I would be judge, jury, and executioner all in one. You’d have done the same, if you had any manhood in you, and if you’d been in my place.

“The girl I mentioned was supposed to marry me twenty years ago. She was forced into marrying that same Drebber and died of heartbreak. I took the wedding ring from her dead finger, and I swore that Drebber’s dying eyes would see that ring, and that his last thoughts would be of the crime he was being punished for. I carried that ring with me and followed him and his accomplice across two continents until I caught them. They thought they could wear me down, but they couldn’t. If I die tomorrow—which is likely enough—I’ll die knowing my work in this world is finished, and done well. They’re dead, and by my hand. There’s nothing left for me to hope for or want.

“They were rich, and I was poor, so following them wasn’t easy. When I reached London, I was almost out of money and had to find work to survive. Driving and riding come as naturally to me as walking, so I went to a cab owner’s office and got a job. I had to bring in a set amount each week, and whatever I earned beyond that was mine. There was rarely much extra, but I managed to get by. The hardest part was learning my way around, because I swear this city is the most confusing maze ever built. I kept a map with me, though, and once I’d memorized the main hotels and stations, I managed pretty well.”

It took me quite a while to find out where my two gentlemen were living. But I kept asking around until I finally tracked them down. They were staying at a boarding house in Camberwell, on the other side of the river. Once I’d located them, I knew I had them at my mercy. I’d grown a beard, so there was no chance they’d recognize me. I planned to shadow them and follow them until I saw my opportunity. I was determined they wouldn’t escape me again.

Even so, they almost did. Wherever they went in London, I was always right behind them. Sometimes I followed in my cab, sometimes on foot—but the cab was better, since they couldn’t easily get away. Because I could only earn money early in the morning or late at night, I started falling behind with my employer. I didn’t care, though, as long as I could get my hands on the men I wanted.

They were clever, though. They must have suspected they were being followed, because they never went out alone and never after dark. For two weeks straight, I drove behind them every day and never once saw them separate. Drebber was drunk half the time, but Stangerson was always alert. I kept watch day and night, but never saw even the faintest chance. Still, I didn’t lose heart. Something told me the time was close. My only fear was that the thing in my chest might burst too soon and leave my work unfinished.

At last, one evening I was driving up and down Torquay Terrace—the street where they were boarding—when I saw a cab pull up to their door. Soon after, some luggage was brought out, and then Drebber and Stangerson followed and drove off. I urged my horse on and kept them in sight, uneasy that they might be changing lodgings. At Euston Station they got out. I left a boy to hold my horse and followed them onto the platform. I heard them ask for the Liverpool train, and the guard told them one had just left and there wouldn’t be another for several hours. Stangerson seemed annoyed at that, but Drebber looked more pleased than not. I was close enough in the crowd to hear every word between them. Drebber said he had some private business to attend to and would rejoin Stangerson soon if he waited. His companion argued, reminding him they had agreed to stay together. Drebber replied that the matter was delicate and he had to go alone. I couldn’t catch Stangerson’s exact answer, but Drebber swore at him and reminded him that he was only a paid servant and shouldn’t presume to give orders. At that, the secretary gave up and simply arranged that if Drebber missed the last train, he should meet him at Halliday’s Private Hotel. Drebber said he’d be back on the platform before eleven, then left the station.

The moment I’d waited for so long had finally come. I had my enemies within my reach. Together they could protect each other, but alone each was at my mercy. Still, I didn’t act hastily. My plan was already made. Revenge isn’t satisfying unless the culprit understands who’s striking him and why punishment has come. I’d worked it out so I could make the man who wronged me realize his old crime had caught up with him.

A few days earlier, a gentleman who’d been inspecting houses on Brixton Road had dropped the key to one of them in my cab. It was claimed that same evening and returned, but in the meantime I’d made a mold of it and had a copy made. With that, I had access to at least one place in this vast city where I could be sure of not being disturbed. The problem now was how to get Drebber to that house.

He walked down the street and stopped in one or two liquor shops, spending nearly half an hour in the last one. When he came out, he was clearly drunk. A hansom cab stood just ahead of me, and he hailed it. I followed so closely that the nose of my horse was within a yard of his driver the whole way. We rattled across Waterloo Bridge and through miles of streets until, to my surprise, we ended up back at the same Terrace where he’d been boarding. I couldn’t imagine why he’d returned there, but I pulled up my cab about a hundred yards from the house. He went inside, and his hansom drove away. “Give me a glass of water, please—my mouth gets dry from all this talking.”

I handed him the glass, and he drank it down.

“That’s better,” he said. “Well, I waited for fifteen minutes or more, when suddenly I heard a noise like people struggling inside the house. The next moment the door flew open and two men appeared—one was Drebber, and the other was a young man I’d never seen before. The stranger had Drebber by the collar, and when they reached the top of the steps, he shoved and kicked him so hard that he went halfway across the road. ‘You hound!’ he shouted, shaking his stick at him. ‘I’ll teach you to insult an honest girl!’ He was so furious that I think he would have beaten Drebber with his stick if the scoundrel hadn’t staggered away down the street as fast as he could. He ran to the corner and, spotting my cab, hailed me and jumped in. ‘Drive me to Halliday’s Private Hotel,’ he said.

Once he was safely inside my cab, my heart leapt with joy so violently I was afraid my aneurysm might burst right then. I drove slowly, thinking over what to do. I could take him out into the countryside and have my final meeting with him in some lonely lane. I had almost decided on that when he made the choice for me. The craving for drink hit him again, and he told me to stop outside a gin palace. He went in, telling me to wait. He stayed there until closing time, and when he came out, he was so drunk that I knew the game was entirely in my hands.

“Don’t think I meant to kill him in cold blood. It would’ve been strict justice if I had, but I couldn’t bring myself to do it. I’d already decided long ago that he’d have a chance at his life, if he chose to take it. During my wandering years in America, I’d worked many jobs, and once I was janitor and cleaner in the laboratory at York College. One day the professor was giving a lecture on poisons. He showed his students an alkaloid, as he called it, extracted from some South American arrow poison—so powerful that even a tiny grain meant instant death. I noticed the bottle where he kept it, and when everyone left, I took a little for myself.

I was a decent hand at mixing medicines, so I worked the alkaloid into small, dissolvable pills. Each box held two pills—one harmless, one deadly. I decided that when the time came, my gentlemen would each draw one pill, and I’d swallow the one that was left. It would be just as fatal and a lot quieter than shooting across a handkerchief. From that day on, I always carried those pill boxes with me, waiting for the moment to use them.

It was closer to one than twelve that night—a wild, bitter night, with hard wind and pouring rain. Miserable as it was outside, I was overjoyed inside—so happy I could’ve shouted from sheer excitement. If any of you have ever longed for something for twenty years and suddenly found it within reach, you’d understand how I felt. I lit a cigar to steady my nerves, but my hands were shaking and my temples throbbed with excitement. As I drove, I could almost see old John Ferrier and sweet Lucy looking at me out of the darkness, smiling at me as clearly as I see you now. They seemed to ride ahead of me all the way—one on each side of the horse—until I stopped at the house on Brixton Road.

Not a soul was around, and the only sound was the rain dripping. When I looked through the window, I saw Drebber slumped in a drunken sleep. I shook his arm. “Time to get out,” I said.

“All right, cabby,” he muttered.

He must’ve thought we’d reached the hotel he’d mentioned, because he got out without a word and followed me down the garden path. I walked beside him to keep him steady, since he was still a bit drunk. When we reached the door, I opened it and led him into the front room. I swear to you, the father and daughter seemed to walk in front of us the whole way.

“It’s damn dark,” he said, stamping around.

“We’ll have light soon,” I told him, striking a match and lighting a wax candle I’d brought. “Now, Enoch Drebber,” I said, turning toward him and holding the light to my face, “who am I?”

He stared at me with bleary eyes for a moment. Then I saw horror flood his face and twist his features—it was clear he recognized me. He staggered back, his face pale, sweat breaking out on his forehead, his teeth chattering. At that sight, I leaned against the door and laughed loud and long. I’d always known revenge would be sweet, but I’d never imagined the deep satisfaction I felt in that moment.

“You dog!” I said. “I’ve hunted you from Salt Lake City to St. Petersburg, and you always escaped me. But now your running is over. One of us won’t live to see tomorrow’s sunrise.” He shrank back even farther, and I could see he thought I was insane—and for that moment, I was. The pounding in my temples felt like hammer blows, and I think I would’ve had a fit if the blood hadn’t burst from my nose and relieved the pressure.

“What do you think of Lucy Ferrier now?” I shouted, locking the door and shaking the key in his face. “Punishment took its time, but it’s caught up with you at last.” I saw his cowardly lips tremble. He would’ve begged for his life, but he knew it was useless.

“Would you murder me?” he stammered.

“This isn’t murder,” I said. “Who calls it murder to kill a mad dog? What mercy did you show my poor girl when you tore her from her slain father and dragged her into your cursed, shameful harem?”

“It wasn’t me who killed her father!” he cried.

“But it was you who broke her innocent heart!” I shouted, thrusting the box toward him. “Let God judge between us. Choose and eat. One holds death, the other life. I’ll take the one you leave. Let’s see if there’s justice on earth, or if it’s all just chance.”

He cringed and cried for mercy, but I drew my knife and held it to his throat until he obeyed. Then I swallowed the other pill, and we stood facing each other in silence for a minute or more, waiting to see who would live and who would die. I’ll never forget the look on his face when the first pangs hit him and he realized the poison was working. I laughed when I saw it and held Lucy’s wedding ring before his eyes. It only lasted a moment—the alkaloid acts fast. His face twisted in pain, he threw out his hands, staggered, and with a hoarse cry, fell heavily to the floor. I turned him over with my foot and felt his heart. No movement. He was dead.

Blood was still pouring from my nose, but I hadn’t paid any attention to it. I don’t know what made me think to write on the wall with it. Maybe it was a mischievous idea to throw the police off the track, because I felt oddly cheerful. I remembered a German found dead in New York with “RACHE” written above him, and how the newspapers said secret societies were behind it. I figured what puzzled New Yorkers would puzzle Londoners too, so I dipped my finger in my blood and wrote it on the wall. Then I went back to my cab. No one was around, and the night was still wild. I’d driven some distance when I reached into the pocket where I usually kept Lucy’s ring—and found it gone. I was stunned. It was the only keepsake I had of her. Thinking I might’ve dropped it when I bent over Drebber’s body, I drove back. Leaving my cab in a side street, I went straight up to the house—I’d risk anything rather than lose that ring. But when I got there, I walked right into the arms of a police officer coming out. I only managed to calm his suspicions by pretending to be hopelessly drunk.”

“That’s how Enoch Drebber met his end. After that, all I had left to do was the same for Stangerson, to settle John Ferrier’s debt. I knew he was staying at Halliday’s Private Hotel, so I hung around all day, but he never came out. I think he started to suspect something when Drebber didn’t show up. Stangerson was a careful, suspicious man. If he thought he could avoid me by hiding indoors, he was badly mistaken. I soon figured out which window was his bedroom. Early the next morning, I used some ladders lying in the lane behind the hotel and climbed into his room at dawn.

I woke him and told him his time had come—to answer for the life he’d taken long ago. I told him how Drebber had died and gave him the same choice of poisoned pills. Instead of taking the chance to save himself, he jumped from his bed and grabbed at my throat. I stabbed him through the heart in self-defense. It would have ended the same way anyway—Providence would never have let his guilty hand choose anything but the poison.

“I don’t have much more to say, and it’s just as well, because I’m about finished. I kept driving my cab for another day or two, planning to save enough to get back to America. I was standing in the yard when a ragged boy came up asking if there was a cabby named Jefferson Hope, saying a gentleman at 221B Baker Street wanted his cab. I went round, suspecting nothing, and the next thing I knew, this young man here had snapped the bracelets on my wrists—neater work than I’ve ever seen. That’s my whole story, gentlemen. You can call me a murderer if you like, but I believe I’m as much an officer of justice as any of you.”

The man’s story had been so gripping, and his manner so intense, that we’d all sat silent and absorbed. Even the professional detectives—jaded as they were by endless crimes—seemed genuinely fascinated. When he finished, we sat for several minutes in silence, broken only by the scratching of Lestrade’s pencil as he completed his shorthand notes.

“There’s just one point I’d like a bit more information about,” Sherlock Holmes said at last. “Who was your accomplice—the one who came for the ring I advertised?”

The prisoner gave my friend a playful wink. “I can tell my own secrets,” he said, “but I don’t get other people into trouble. I saw your ad and thought it might be a trap—or maybe it really was the ring I wanted. My friend offered to go check it out. You’ve got to admit, he handled it neatly.”

“No doubt about that,” Holmes said warmly.

“Now, gentlemen,” the inspector said seriously, “we must follow the proper legal process. On Thursday the prisoner will appear before the magistrates, and your attendance will be required. Until then, I’ll be responsible for him.” He rang the bell as he spoke, and Jefferson Hope was led away by two warders. My friend and I left the station and took a cab back to Baker Street.

## Chapter 7 — The Conclusion

We had all been told to appear before the magistrates on Thursday, but when the day came, our testimony wasn’t needed. A higher Judge had taken over the case, and Jefferson Hope had been called before a court where true justice would be served. The very night after his capture, the aneurysm burst. In the morning, they found him lying on the floor of his cell with a calm smile on his face, as if, in his final moments, he’d been able to look back on a life that had meant something and work well done.

“Gregson and Lestrade will be furious about his death,” Holmes said as we discussed it the next evening. “Where’s their big publicity now?”

“I don’t think they had much to do with catching him,” I replied.

“What you actually do in this world doesn’t matter,” my companion said bitterly. “What matters is what you can make people believe you’ve done. Still,” he added more cheerfully after a pause, “I wouldn’t have missed this investigation for anything. There hasn’t been a better case in my memory. Simple as it was, there were several very instructive points about it.”

“Simple!” I exclaimed.

“Well, really, it can hardly be called anything else,” said Sherlock Holmes, smiling at my surprise. “The proof of how simple it was lies in the fact that, with only a few ordinary deductions, I was able to identify the criminal within three days.”

“That’s true,” I admitted.

“I’ve already explained that what’s unusual often helps rather than hinders an investigation. In solving a problem like this, the key is being able to reason backward. It’s a very useful skill—and actually an easy one—but people rarely practice it. In everyday life, people usually reason forward, so the other method gets neglected. For every fifty who can reason synthetically, only one can reason analytically.”

“I admit,” I said, “I don’t quite follow you.”

“I didn’t really expect you to. Let me try to make it clearer. Most people, if you describe a series of events to them, can tell you what the outcome will be. They can piece those events together and predict what’s likely to happen. But very few people, if you give them a result, can work backward in their minds to figure out the steps that led to it. That’s what I mean by reasoning backward—or analytically.”

“I see,” I said.

“This was a case where we were given the result and had to discover everything else ourselves. Let me show you the steps in my reasoning. Starting from the beginning: I approached the house on foot, as you know, with my mind completely clear. Naturally, I began by examining the road. There, as I’ve already told you, I clearly saw cab marks, which I confirmed by asking around had been made during the night. I determined it was a cab, not a private carriage, because the wheel tracks were narrow. The ordinary London growler is much narrower than a gentleman’s brougham.

“That was my first clue. Then I walked slowly down the garden path, which happened to be made of clay—perfect for capturing footprints. You probably saw just a messy strip of mud, but to my trained eyes, every mark meant something. No branch of detective work is more important—or more neglected—than the art of tracking footprints. Fortunately, I’ve always emphasized it, and practice has made it second nature to me. I saw the heavy boot marks of the constables, but I also saw the tracks of the two men who had first gone through the garden. It was easy to tell they’d come before the others, because in places their prints had been partly erased by later ones. That gave me my second link: there had been two visitors during the night—one tall, as I could tell from his long stride, and the other fashionably dressed, judging by the small, neat prints left by his boots.

“When I entered the house, that last deduction was confirmed. The well-dressed man lay dead before me. The tall one, then, must have done the killing—if it was a killing. There was no wound on the dead man’s body, but the strained look on his face told me he had seen his death coming. Men who die suddenly of heart disease or other natural causes never show such fear. When I smelled his lips, I noticed a faint sour odor and concluded that poison had been forced on him. I reasoned that it had been forced because of the fear and hatred visible on his face. By ruling out every other possibility, I reached that conclusion—no other explanation fit the facts. It wasn’t an unusual idea either; forced poisoning isn’t new in criminal history. Any toxicologist would immediately think of the Dolsky case in Odessa or Leturier in Montpellier.

“Then came the big question—why? Robbery clearly wasn’t the motive; nothing had been taken. So was it politics, or was it a woman? That was the problem before me. From the start, I leaned toward the latter. Political assassins usually do their work quickly and flee. This murder had been done deliberately, and the killer had left his tracks all over the room, showing he’d stayed for some time. It had to be a personal wrong, not a political one, that demanded such careful revenge. When the inscription was found on the wall, I was more convinced than ever. It was obviously a distraction. But when the ring was discovered, that settled it. The murderer had used it to remind his victim of some dead or absent woman. That was when I asked Gregson whether he’d included in his telegram to Cleveland any questions about Mr. Drebber’s past. You’ll remember he said no.”

I then made a careful inspection of the room. It confirmed my estimate of the murderer’s height and gave me extra details about the Trichinopoly cigar and the length of his fingernails. Since there were no signs of a struggle, I had already concluded that the blood covering the floor had come from the murderer’s nose during his excitement. I could see that the blood trail matched his footprints exactly. It’s rare for anyone, unless they’re very full-blooded, to have such a nosebleed from emotion, so I guessed that the criminal was a strong, ruddy-faced man. Events proved my guess right.

After leaving the house, I did what Gregson had failed to do. I sent a telegram to the head of police in Cleveland, asking only about the circumstances of Enoch Drebber’s marriage. The reply was decisive. It said that Drebber had already sought legal protection from an old romantic rival named Jefferson Hope, and that Hope was currently in Europe. I knew then that I held the key to the mystery, and all that remained was to capture the murderer.

I had already decided that the man who entered the house with Drebber was the same man who had driven the cab. The marks in the road showed that the horse had wandered off in a way that would have been impossible if anyone had been controlling it. Where else could the driver have been except inside the house? Besides, it’s absurd to think any sane man would commit a deliberate murder right under the eyes of a third person who could easily expose him. Finally, if a man wanted to follow another through London, what better disguise could he choose than that of a cab driver? All these points led me to the undeniable conclusion that Jefferson Hope was working among the cabmen of the city.

If he had been one,
