Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo. Sailing for London, I
re-embarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day
landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg.

Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold
Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries
that the greater city masqueraded as "Christiania." I made the brief
trip by taxicab, and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat
and ancient building with plastered front. A sad-faced woman in black
answered my summons, and I was stung with disappointment when she told
me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more.

He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
sea in 1925 had broken him. He had told her no more than he had told
the public, but had left a long manuscript--of "technical matters" as
he said--written in English, evidently in order to safeguard her from
the peril of casual perusal. During a walk through a narrow lane near
the Gothenburg dock, a bundle of papers falling from an attic window
had knocked him down. Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his
feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead. Physicians
found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a
weakened constitution.

I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave
me till I, too, am at rest; "accidentally" or otherwise. Persuading the
widow that my connection with her husband's "technical matters" was
sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
and began to read it on the London boat.

It was a simple, rambling thing--a naive sailor's effort at a
post-facto diary--and strove to recall day by day that last awful
voyage. I can not attempt to transcribe it verbatim in all its
cloudiness and redundance, but I will tell its gist enough to show why
the sound of the water against the vessel's sides became so unendurable
to me that I stopped my ears with cotton.

Johansen, thank God, did not know quite all, even though he saw the
city and the Thing, but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think
of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space,
and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream
beneath the sea, known and favored by a nightmare cult ready and eager
to loose them on the world whenever another earthquake shall heave
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.

       *       *       *       *       *

Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice-admiralty.
The _Emma_, in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February 20th, and had
felt the full force of that earthquake-born tempest which must have
heaved up from the sea-bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams.
Once more under control, the ship was making good progress when held
up by the _Alert_ on March 22nd, and I could feel the mate's regret as
he wrote of her bombardment and sinking. Of the swarthy cult-fiends
on the _Alert_ he speaks with significant horror. There was some
peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction
seem almost a duty, and Johansen shows ingenuous wonder at the charge
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
court of inquiry. Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured
yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar
sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude 47° 9', W. Longitude 126°
43' come upon a coastline of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean
masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of
earth's supreme terror--the nightmare corpse-city of R'lyeh, that
was built in measureless eons behind history by the vast, loathsome
shapes that seeped down from the dark stars. There lay great Cthulhu
and his hordes, hidden in green slimy vaults and sending out at last,
after cycles incalculable, the thoughts that spread fear to the dreams
of the sensitive and called imperiously to the faithful to come on a
pilgrimage of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not
suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!

I suppose that only a single mountain-top, the hideous monolith-crowned
citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the
waters. When I think of the _extent_ of all that may be brooding down
there I almost wish to kill myself forthwith. Johansen and his men were
awed by the cosmic majesty of this dripping Babylon of elder demons,
and must have guessed without guidance that it was nothing of this or
of any sane planet. Awe at the unbelievable size of the greenish stone
blocks, at the dizzying height of the great carven monolith, and at the
stupefying identity of the colossal statues and bas-reliefs with the
queer image found in the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
in every line of the mate's frightened description.

Without knowing what futurism is like, Johansen achieved something
very close to it when he spoke of the city; for instead of describing
any definite structure or building, he dwells only on the broad
impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces--surfaces too great to
belong to anything right or proper for this earth, and impious with
horrible images and hieroglyphs. I mention his talk about _angles_
because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
He had said that the _geometry_ of the dream-place he saw was abnormal,
non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart
from ours. Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing
at the terrible reality.

Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud-bank on this monstrous
Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
could have been no mortal staircase. The very sun of heaven seemed
distorted when viewed through the polarizing miasma welling out from
this sea-soaked perversion, and twisted menace and suspense lurked
leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second
glance showed concavity after the first showed convexity.

Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before
anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen. Each
would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was
only half-heartedly that they searched--vainly, as it proved--for some
portable souvenir to bear away.

