They obeyed, laying the helpless giant on the furs and covering him with a silken cloak. Pallantides turned to the five squires and studied their pale faces for a long moment before speaking.  

“Our lips must remain sealed forever about what happens in this tent,” he said at last. “The fate of Aquilonia depends on it. One of you, go and bring me the officer Valannus, captain of the Pellian spearmen.”  

The chosen squire bowed and hurried out, while Pallantides stood staring down at the stricken king. Outside, trumpets blared, drums thundered, and the roar of the crowds rose with the growing dawn. Soon the squire returned with the officer Pallantides had named—a tall, broad, powerful man, built much like the king. Like him, he had thick black hair, but his eyes were gray, and his features were unlike Conan’s.  

“The king has been struck by a strange illness,” said Pallantides curtly. “A great honor is yours; you are to wear his armor and ride at the head of the army today. No one must know it isn’t the king who rides.”  

“It’s an honor a man would gladly give his life for,” stammered the captain, overwhelmed by the command. “Mitra grant that I do not fail in this great duty!”  

And while the fallen king stared with burning eyes that revealed the bitter rage and humiliation consuming his heart, the squires stripped Valannus of his mail shirt, helmet, and leg armor, and dressed him in Conan’s black plate armor, with the visored salade and the dark plumes nodding over the wyvern crest. Over it all they placed the silken surcoat with the royal lion embroidered in gold on the chest, and they girded him with a broad gold-buckled belt holding a jewel-hilted broadsword in a gold cloth scabbard. While they worked, trumpets blared outside, weapons clanged, and across the river rose a deep roar as squadron after squadron moved into position.  

Fully armed, Valannus dropped to one knee and bowed his plumes before the figure lying on the dais.  

“My lord king, may Mitra grant that I do not dishonor the armor I wear today!”  

“Bring me Tarascus’s head and I’ll make you a baron!” In the torment of his anguish, Conan’s thin layer of civilization fell away. His eyes blazed; he ground his teeth in fury and bloodlust, as savage as any tribesman from the Cimmerian hills.  

3 – THE CLIFFS REEL  

The Aquilonian army was drawn up—long, tight ranks of pikemen and horsemen in gleaming steel—when a giant figure in black armor stepped out of the royal pavilion. As he swung into the saddle of the black stallion held by four squires, a roar that shook the mountains rose from the army. They brandished their blades and thundered their cheers for their warrior king—knights in gold-chased armor, pikemen in mail coats and helmets, archers in leather jerkins with longbows in their left hands.  

The army on the opposite side of the valley was moving, trotting down the long, gentle slope toward the river; their steel flashed through the morning mists swirling around their horses’ hooves.  

The Aquilonian host advanced steadily to meet them. The rhythmic tramp of armored horses made the ground tremble. Banners unfurled long silken folds in the morning wind; lances swayed like a bristling forest, dipping and rising, their pennons fluttering.  

Ten men-at-arms—grim, silent veterans who could keep their mouths shut—guarded the royal pavilion. One squire stood inside the tent, peering out through a slit in the doorway. Except for those few who knew the secret, no one in the vast army realized it wasn’t Conan riding the great stallion at the head of the host.  

The Aquilonian army had taken its usual formation: the strongest part was the center, composed entirely of heavily armed knights; the wings were formed of smaller groups of horsemen—mostly mounted men-at-arms—supported by pikemen and archers. The archers were Bossonians from the western borders, sturdy men of medium height, wearing leather jackets and iron helmets.  

The Nemedian army advanced in a similar formation, and the two forces moved toward the river, their wings leading their centers. In the middle of the Aquilonian host, the great lion banner streamed its billowing black folds over the steel-clad figure on the black stallion.  

But on his dais in the royal pavilion, Conan groaned in torment and cursed with strange heathen oaths.  

“The armies are closing in,” said the squire, watching from the doorway. “Hear the trumpets! Ha! The rising sun flashes off the lance tips and helmets until I’m blinded. It turns the river crimson—yes, it’ll be truly crimson before this day is done!  

“The enemy has reached the river. Now arrows fly between the armies like stinging clouds that block the sun. Ha! Well shot, bowmen! The Bossonians have the upper hand! Listen to them shout!”  

Faintly, above the blare of trumpets and the clash of steel, the deep, fierce shout of the Bossonians reached the king’s ears as they drew and loosed in perfect rhythm.  

“Their archers are trying to keep ours busy while their knights ride into the river,” said the squire. “The banks aren’t steep; they slope gently to the water’s edge. The knights are coming—they crash through the willows. By Mitra, the clothyard arrows find every gap in their armor! Horses and men go down, struggling and thrashing in the water. It’s not deep, and the current isn’t strong, but men are drowning there, dragged under by their armor and trampled by panicked horses. Now the knights of Aquilonia advance. They ride into the water and clash with the knights of Nemedia. The water swirls around their horses’ bellies, and the clang of sword on sword is deafening.”  

“Crom!” burst from Conan’s lips in agony. Life was slowly returning to his veins, but still he couldn’t lift his mighty body from the dais.  

“The wings are closing in,” said the squire. “Pikemen and swordsmen fight hand to hand in the stream, and behind them the bowmen keep shooting.  

“By Mitra, the Nemedian crossbowmen are taking a beating, and the Bossonians arc their arrows to drop into the rear ranks. Their center gains no ground, and their wings are being pushed back from the river again.”  

“Crom, Ymir, and Mitra!” raged Conan. “Gods and devils, if only I could reach the fight, even if it meant dying at the first blow!”  

* * * * *

Outside, through the long, scorching day, the battle raged and thundered. The valley shook with charges and countercharges, with the whistling of arrows, the crash of splintering shields, and the shattering of lances. But the armies of Aquilonia held firm. Once they were driven back from the riverbank, but a counterattack, with the black banner streaming above the black stallion, regained the lost ground. Like an iron wall they held the right bank of the stream, and at last the squire brought Conan word that the Nemedians were retreating from the river.