“But would he come?” she asked, with something appealing in her voice
and expression.
“I should be proud and happy,” said I, fervently, “if I can be of any
service.”
“You are both very kind,” she answered. “I have led a retired life, and
have no friends whom I could appeal to. If I am here at six it will do,
I suppose?”
“You must not be later,” said Holmes. “There is one other point,
however. Is this handwriting the same as that upon the pearl-box
addresses?”
“I have them here,” she answered, producing half a dozen pieces of
paper.
“You are certainly a model client. You have the correct intuition. Let
us see, now.” He spread out the papers upon the table, and gave little
darting glances from one to the other. “They are disguised hands,
except the letter,” he said, presently, “but there can be no question
as to the authorship. See how the irrepressible Greek _e_ will break
out, and see the twirl of the final _s_. They are undoubtedly by the
same person. I should not like to suggest false hopes, Miss Morstan,
but is there any resemblance between this hand and that of your
father?”
“Nothing could be more unlike.”
“I expected to hear you say so. We shall look out for you, then, at
six. Pray allow me to keep the papers. I may look into the matter
before then. It is only half-past three. _Au revoir_, then.”
“_Au revoir_,” said our visitor, and, with a bright, kindly glance from
one to the other of us, she replaced her pearl-box in her bosom and
hurried away. Standing at the window, I watched her walking briskly
down the street, until the grey turban and white feather were but a
speck in the sombre crowd.
“What a very attractive woman!” I exclaimed, turning to my companion.
He had lit his pipe again, and was leaning back with drooping eyelids.
“Is she?” he said, languidly. “I did not observe.”
“You really are an automaton,—a calculating-machine!” I cried. “There
is something positively inhuman in you at times.”
He smiled gently. “It is of the first importance,” he said, “not to
allow your judgment to be biased by personal qualities. A client is to
me a mere unit,—a factor in a problem. The emotional qualities are
antagonistic to clear reasoning. I assure you that the most winning
woman I ever knew was hanged for poisoning three little children for
their insurance-money, and the most repellant man of my acquaintance is
a philanthropist who has spent nearly a quarter of a million upon the
London poor.”
“In this case, however—”
“I never make exceptions. An exception disproves the rule. Have you
ever had occasion to study character in handwriting? What do you make
of this fellow’s scribble?”
“It is legible and regular,” I answered. “A man of business habits and
some force of character.”
Holmes shook his head. “Look at his long letters,” he said. “They
hardly rise above the common herd. That _d_ might be an _a_, and that
_l_ an _e_. Men of character always differentiate their long letters,
however illegibly they may write. There is vacillation in his _k_’s and
self-esteem in his capitals. I am going out now. I have some few
references to make. Let me recommend this book,—one of the most
remarkable ever penned. It is Winwood Reade’s ‘Martyrdom of Man.’ I
shall be back in an hour.”
I sat in the window with the volume in my hand, but my thoughts were
far from the daring speculations of the writer. My mind ran upon our
late visitor,—her smiles, the deep rich tones of her voice, the strange
mystery which overhung her life. If she were seventeen at the time of
her father’s disappearance she must be seven-and-twenty now,—a sweet
age, when youth has lost its self-consciousness and become a little
sobered by experience. So I sat and mused, until such dangerous
thoughts came into my head that I hurried away to my desk and plunged
furiously into the latest treatise upon pathology. What was I, an army
surgeon with a weak leg and a weaker banking-account, that I should
dare to think of such things? She was a unit, a factor,—nothing more.
If my future were black, it was better surely to face it like a man
than to attempt to brighten it by mere will-o’-the-wisps of the
imagination.
