“Well, I was pretty proud at having this small command given me, since
I was a raw recruit, and a game-legged one at that. For two nights I
kept the watch with my Punjaubees. They were tall, fierce-looking
chaps, Mahomet Singh and Abdullah Khan by name, both old fighting-men
who had borne arms against us at Chilian-wallah. They could talk
English pretty well, but I could get little out of them. They preferred
to stand together and jabber all night in their queer Sikh lingo. For
myself, I used to stand outside the gateway, looking down on the broad,
winding river and on the twinkling lights of the great city. The
beating of drums, the rattle of tomtoms, and the yells and howls of the
rebels, drunk with opium and with bang, were enough to remind us all
night of our dangerous neighbours across the stream. Every two hours
the officer of the night used to come round to all the posts, to make
sure that all was well.
“The third night of my watch was dark and dirty, with a small, driving
rain. It was dreary work standing in the gateway hour after hour in
such weather. I tried again and again to make my Sikhs talk, but
without much success. At two in the morning the rounds passed, and
broke for a moment the weariness of the night. Finding that my
companions would not be led into conversation, I took out my pipe, and
laid down my musket to strike the match. In an instant the two Sikhs
were upon me. One of them snatched my firelock up and levelled it at my
head, while the other held a great knife to my throat and swore between
his teeth that he would plunge it into me if I moved a step.
“My first thought was that these fellows were in league with the
rebels, and that this was the beginning of an assault. If our door were
in the hands of the Sepoys the place must fall, and the women and
children be treated as they were in Cawnpore. Maybe you gentlemen think
that I am just making out a case for myself, but I give you my word
that when I thought of that, though I felt the point of the knife at my
throat, I opened my mouth with the intention of giving a scream, if it
was my last one, which might alarm the main guard. The man who held me
seemed to know my thoughts; for, even as I braced myself to it, he
whispered, ‘Don’t make a noise. The fort is safe enough. There are no
rebel dogs on this side of the river.’ There was the ring of truth in
what he said, and I knew that if I raised my voice I was a dead man. I
could read it in the fellow’s brown eyes. I waited, therefore, in
silence, to see what it was that they wanted from me.
“‘Listen to me, Sahib,’ said the taller and fiercer of the pair, the
one whom they called Abdullah Khan. ‘You must either be with us now or
you must be silenced forever. The thing is too great a one for us to
hesitate. Either you are heart and soul with us on your oath on the
cross of the Christians, or your body this night shall be thrown into
the ditch and we shall pass over to our brothers in the rebel army.
There is no middle way. Which is it to be, death or life? We can only
give you three minutes to decide, for the time is passing, and all must
be done before the rounds come again.’
“‘How can I decide?’ said I. ‘You have not told me what you want of me.
But I tell you now that if it is anything against the safety of the
fort I will have no truck with it, so you can drive home your knife and
welcome.’
“‘It is nothing against the fort,’ said he. ‘We only ask you to do that
which your countrymen come to this land for. We ask you to be rich. If
you will be one of us this night, we will swear to you upon the naked
knife, and by the threefold oath which no Sikh was ever known to break,
that you shall have your fair share of the loot. A quarter of the
treasure shall be yours. We can say no fairer.’
“‘But what is the treasure, then?’ I asked. ‘I am as ready to be rich
as you can be, if you will but show me how it can be done.’
“‘You will swear, then,’ said he, ‘by the bones of your father, by the
honour of your mother, by the cross of your faith, to raise no hand and
speak no word against us, either now or afterwards?’
“‘I will swear it,’ I answered, ‘provided that the fort is not
endangered.’
“‘Then my comrade and I will swear that you shall have a quarter of the
treasure which shall be equally divided among the four of us.’
“‘There are but three,’ said I.
“‘No; Dost Akbar must have his share. We can tell the tale to you while
we await them. Do you stand at the gate, Mahomet Singh, and give notice
of their coming. The thing stands thus, Sahib, and I tell it to you
because I know that an oath is binding upon a Feringhee, and that we
may trust you. Had you been a lying Hindoo, though you had sworn by all
the gods in their false temples, your blood would have been upon the
knife, and your body in the water. But the Sikh knows the Englishman,
and the Englishman knows the Sikh. Hearken, then, to what I have to
say.
“‘There is a rajah in the northern provinces who has much wealth,
though his lands are small. Much has come to him from his father, and
more still he has set by himself, for he is of a low nature and hoards
his gold rather than spend it. When the troubles broke out he would be
friends both with the lion and the tiger,—with the Sepoy and with the
Company’s Raj. Soon, however, it seemed to him that the white men’s day
was come, for through all the land he could hear of nothing but of
their death and their overthrow. Yet, being a careful man, he made such
plans that, come what might, half at least of his treasure should be
left to him. That which was in gold and silver he kept by him in the
vaults of his palace, but the most precious stones and the choicest
pearls that he had he put in an iron box, and sent it by a trusty
servant who, under the guise of a merchant, should take it to the fort
at Agra, there to lie until the land is at peace. Thus, if the rebels
won he would have his money, but if the Company conquered his jewels
would be saved to him. Having thus divided his hoard, he threw himself
into the cause of the Sepoys, since they were strong upon his borders.
By doing this, mark you, Sahib, his property becomes the due of those
who have been true to their salt.
