Part I

Chapter 1

The Warning

“I am inclined to think—” I began.

“I should,” Sherlock Holmes said impatiently.

I count myself among the most patient of mortals, but this sardonic interruption annoyed me. “Really, Holmes,” I said severely, “you can be very trying at times.”

He was too absorbed in his thoughts to answer at once. He leaned upon his hand, with his untouched breakfast before him, staring at the slip of paper he had just drawn from its envelope. Then he held the envelope up to the light and carefully examined both the outside and the flap.

“It is Porlock’s writing,” he said thoughtfully. “I can hardly doubt it, though I have seen it only twice before. The Greek ‘e’ with the peculiar top flourish is distinctive. But if it is Porlock, then it must mean something of great importance.”

He was speaking more to himself than to me, but my vexation vanished before the interest his words aroused.

“Who then is Porlock?” I asked.

“Porlock, Watson, is a pseudonym, a mere identifying mark. Behind it lies a shifty and evasive personality. In a previous letter he frankly told me the name was not his own, and defied me to trace him among the millions of this great city. Porlock matters not for himself, but for the great man with whom he is associated. Picture the pilot-fish with the shark, the jackal with the lion—something insignificant in the company of something formidable. Not only formidable, Watson, but sinister—deeply sinister. That is where he enters my field of view. You have heard me speak of Professor Moriarty?”

“The famous scientific criminal, as famous among crooks as—”

“My blushes, Watson,” murmured Holmes.

“I was about to say, as he is unknown to the public.”

“A hit! A distinct hit!” cried Holmes. “You are developing a certain unexpected vein of dry humour, Watson, against which I must learn to guard myself. But in calling Moriarty a criminal, you are committing libel in the eyes of the law—and therein lies the glory and wonder of it! The greatest schemer of all time, the organiser of every deviltry, the controlling brain of the underworld, a brain which might have made or marred the destiny of nations—that is the man! Yet he is so aloof from general suspicion, so immune to criticism, so admirable in his management and self-effacement, that for those very words you have uttered he could hale you into court and come forth with your year’s pension as compensation for his wounded character. Is he not the celebrated author of The Dynamics of an Asteroid, a book so elevated that no man in the scientific press can venture to criticise it? Is this a man to traduce? Foul-mouthed doctor and slandered professor—such would be your respective rôles! That is genius, Watson. But if I am spared by lesser men, our day will surely come.”

“May I be there to see it!” I exclaimed devoutly. “But you were speaking of this man Porlock.”

“Ah, yes—the so-called Porlock is a link in the chain, some way removed from its great attachment. Porlock is not quite a sound link—between ourselves. He is the only flaw in that chain so far as I have been able to test it.”

“But no chain is stronger than its weakest link.”

“Exactly, my dear Watson! Hence the extreme importance of Porlock. Led by some rudimentary aspirations towards right, and encouraged by the occasional ten-pound note sent by devious methods, he has once or twice given me advance information of value—of the highest value, in that it anticipates and prevents rather than avenges crime. I cannot doubt that, if we had the cipher, we should find this communication to be of the nature I indicate.”

Again Holmes flattened the paper upon his unused plate. I rose and, leaning over him, stared down at the curious inscription, which ran as follows:

534 C2 13 127 36 31 4 17 21 41

“What do you make of it, Holmes?”

“It’s clearly an attempt to convey secret information.”

“But what use is a cipher message without the cipher?”

“In this instance, none at all.”

“Why do you say ‘in this instance’?”

“Because there are many ciphers I could read as easily as the agony column: such crude devices amuse the mind without taxing it. But this is different. It refers to words on a page of some book. Until I know which page and which book, I am powerless.”

“But why ‘Douglas’ and ‘Birlstone’?”

“Because those words aren’t on the page in question.”

“Then why hasn’t he indicated the book?”

“Your native shrewdness, Watson, that innate cunning which delights your friends, would keep you from putting cipher and message in the same envelope. If it went astray, you would be done for. As it is, both would have to miscarry before any harm could come of it. Our second post is overdue, and I should be surprised if it did not bring us either a further letter or the very volume these figures refer to.”

Holmes’s calculation was fulfilled within minutes by Billy, the page, bringing the expected letter. “The same writing,” said Holmes, opening the envelope, “and actually signed,” he added exultantly. “Come, Watson, we are getting on.” His brow clouded as he glanced over the contents. “This is very disappointing. I fear, Watson, all our expectations have come to nothing. I trust Porlock may come to no harm. ‘Dear Mr. Holmes,’ he says, ‘I will go no further in this matter. It is too dangerous—he suspects me. I can see that he suspects me. He came to me unexpectedly after I had addressed this envelope, to send you the cipher key. I was able to cover it up. If he had seen it, it would have gone hard with me. But I read suspicion in his eyes. Please burn the cipher message, which can now be of no use to you. ‘FRED PORLOCK.’”

Holmes sat for a while, twisting the letter and frowning at the fire. “After all,” he said, “there may be nothing in it. It may be his guilty conscience. Knowing himself to be a traitor, he may have read the accusation in the other man’s eyes.”

“The other being, I presume, Professor Moriarty.”

“No less. When they talk about ‘He,’ you know whom they mean. There is one predominant ‘He’ for all of them.”

“But what can he do?”

“That is a broad question. When you have one of the first brains in Europe against you, with all the powers of darkness at his back, there are infinite possibilities. Anyhow, Friend Porlock is scared out of his senses. Compare the writing in the note with that on its envelope, done before this ill-omened visit. One is clear and firm. The other is hardly legible.”

“Why did he write at all? Why not simply drop it?”

“Because he feared I should inquire after him and possibly bring trouble on him.”

“No doubt,” I said. “Of course.” I had picked up the original cipher message and was pondering over it. “It is maddening to think that some important secret may lie here, beyond human power to penetrate.”

Holmes had pushed away his untasted breakfast and had lit the pipe which was the companion of his deepest meditations. “I wonder!” he said, staring up at the ceiling. “Perhaps there are points which have escaped your intellect. Let us consider the problem in the light of pure reason. This man’s reference is to a book. That is our starting-point.”

“A somewhat vague one.”

“Let us see if we can narrow it down. As I dwell upon it, it seems less impenetrable. What indications have we as to this book?”

“None.”

“Well, it is not quite so bad as that. The cipher message begins with a large 534, does it not? We may assume that 534 is the page to which the cipher refers. So our book is a large one, which is something gained. What other indications have we as to this large book? The next sign is C2. What do you make of that, Watson?”

“Chapter the second, no doubt.”

“Hardly that, Watson. If the page is given, the chapter number is immaterial. Also, if page 534 is only the second chapter, the first must have been intolerable.”

“Column!” I cried.

“Brilliant, Watson. You are scintillating this morning. If it is not column, then I am deceived. Now, you perceive that we have come to a large book printed in double columns, each of considerable length, since one word is numbered in the two hundred and ninety-third place. Have we reached the limits of what reason can supply?”

“I fear we have.”

“Surely you do yourself an injustice. One more flash, Watson—yet another brain-wave! Had the volume been an unusual one, he would have sent it to me. Instead, he meant to send me the clue in this envelope. He says so in his note. That suggests a book he thought I should have no difficulty in finding. He had it—and imagined that I should have it too. In short, Watson, it is a very common book.”

“What you say sounds plausible.”

“So we have narrowed our field to a large book, printed in double columns and in common use.”

“The Bible!” I cried triumphantly.

“Good, Watson, good! But not quite good enough! Even if I accepted the compliment, I could hardly name a volume less likely to lie at the elbow of one of Moriarty’s associates. Besides, editions of Holy Writ are so numerous that he could not suppose that two copies would have the same pagination. This is clearly a standardized book. He knows for certain that his page 534 will agree with mine.”

“But very few books would correspond with that.”

“Exactly. Therein lies our salvation. Our search is narrowed to standardized books which anyone might possess.”

“Bradshaw!”

“There are difficulties, Watson. The vocabulary of Bradshaw is terse but limited. The selection of words would hardly lend itself to the sending of general messages. We will eliminate Bradshaw.”

“The dictionary is, I fear, inadmissible for the same reason. What, then, is left?”

“An almanac!”

“Excellent, Watson! I believe you’ve hit the mark. An almanac! Let’s consider Whitaker’s Almanac. It is commonly used, has the required number of pages, and is in double column. Though somewhat restrained in its earlier vocabulary, it becomes quite verbose toward the end.” He took the volume from his desk. “Here is page 534, column two, a substantial block of print dealing with the trade and resources of British India. Jot down the words, Watson! Number thirteen is ‘Mahratta.’ Not a very auspicious beginning. Number one hundred and twenty-seven is ‘Government,’ which at least makes sense, though it is somewhat irrelevant to us and Professor Moriarty. Now let’s try again. What does the Mahratta government do? Alas! the next word is ‘pig’s-bristles.’ We are undone, my good Watson! It is finished!”

He had spoken in a jesting tone, but the twitching of his bushy eyebrows showed his disappointment and irritation. I sat helpless and unhappy, staring into the fire. The long silence was broken by a sudden exclamation from Holmes, who dashed to a cupboard and emerged with a second yellow-covered volume in his hand. “We pay the price, Watson, for being too up-to-date!” he cried. “We are ahead of our time and suffer the usual penalties. Being the seventh of January, we have naturally laid in the new almanac. It is likely that Porlock took his message from the old one. No doubt he would have told us so had his letter of explanation been written. Now let’s see what page 534 has in store for us. Number thirteen is ‘There,’ which is much more promising. Number one hundred and twenty-seven is ‘is’—‘There is’”—Holmes’s eyes gleamed with excitement, and his thin, nervous fingers twitched as he counted the words—“‘danger.’ Ha! Ha! Capital! Put that down, Watson. ‘There is danger—may—come—very soon—one.’ Then we have the name ‘Douglas’—‘rich—country—now—at Birlstone—House—Birlstone—confidence—is—pressing.’ There, Watson! What do you think of pure reason and its fruit? If the greengrocer had such a thing as a laurel wreath, I should send Billy round for it.”

I was staring at the strange message I had scrawled upon a sheet of foolscap on my knee as he deciphered it. “What a queer, scrambling way of expressing his meaning!” I said.

“On the contrary, he has done remarkably well,” said Holmes. “When you search a single column for words to express your meaning, you can’t expect to get everything you want. You are bound to leave something to the intelligence of your correspondent. The purport is perfectly clear. Some deviltry is intended against one Douglas, whoever he may be, residing as stated, a rich country gentleman. He is sure—‘confidence’ was as near as he could get to ‘confident’—that it is pressing. There is our result—and a very workmanlike bit of analysis it was!”

Holmes had the impersonal joy of the true artist in his better work, just as he mourned when it fell below the high level to which he aspired. He was still chuckling over his success when Billy swung open the door and Inspector MacDonald, of Scotland Yard, was ushered in.

Those were the early days, at the end of the ’80s, when Alec MacDonald was far from having attained the national fame he has now achieved. He was a young but trusted member of the detective force, who had distinguished himself in several cases entrusted to him. His tall, bony figure promised exceptional physical strength, while his great cranium and deep-set, lustrous eyes spoke of the keen intelligence that shone from behind his bushy eyebrows. He was a silent, precise man, with a dour nature and a hard Aberdonian accent.

Twice already in his career Holmes had helped him to success, his own sole reward being the intellectual joy of the problem. For this reason the affection and respect of the Scotsman for his amateur colleague were profound, and he showed them in the frankness with which he consulted Holmes in every difficulty. Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself; but talent instantly recognizes genius, and MacDonald had enough talent in his profession to perceive that there was no humiliation in seeking the assistance of one who already stood alone in Europe, both in gifts and experience.

Holmes was not a man much given to friendship, but he tolerated the big Scotsman and smiled at the sight of him. “You are an early bird, Mr. Mac,” he said. “I wish you luck with your worm. I fear there is some mischief afoot.”

“If you said ‘hope’ instead of ‘fear,’ it would be nearer the truth, I’m thinking, Mr. Holmes,” the inspector replied with a knowing grin. “Well, maybe a wee nip would keep out the raw morning chill. No, I won’t smoke, thank you. I must be on my way; the early hours of a case are the precious ones, as no man knows better than yourself. But—but—”

The inspector broke off suddenly, staring in utter amazement at a paper on the table. It was the sheet on which I had scrawled the enigmatic message. “Douglas!” he stammered. “Birlstone! What’s this, Mr. Holmes? Man, it’s witchcraft! Where in the name of all that is wonderful did you get those names?”

“It is a cipher that Dr. Watson and I have had occasion to solve. But why? What is wrong with the names?”

The inspector looked from one to the other of us in dazed astonishment. “Just this,” he said, “that Mr. Douglas of Birlstone Manor House was horribly murdered last night!”

Chapter 2

Sherlock Holmes Discourses

It was one of those dramatic moments for which my friend lived. To say that he was shocked, or even stirred, by the announcement would be an overstatement. Without any trace of cruelty, he was undoubtedly callous from overstimulation. Yet if his emotions were dulled, his intellectual perceptions were highly active. There was no sign of the horror I felt at the declaration; instead, his face showed the calm interest of a chemist watching crystals form in an oversaturated solution. “Remarkable!” he said. “Remarkable!”

“You don’t seem surprised.”

“Interested, Mr. Mac, but hardly surprised. Why should I be? I receive an anonymous communication from a known and important source, warning me of danger to a certain person. Within an hour, I learn that the danger has materialized and that the person is dead. I am interested; but as you observe, not surprised.”

In a few sentences he explained the letter and cipher to the inspector. MacDonald sat with his chin on his hands, his sandy eyebrows tangled. “I was going to Birlstone this morning,” he said. “I came to ask whether you and your friend would join me. But from what you say, we might do better work in London.”

“I think not,” said Holmes.

“Hang it all, Mr. Holmes!” cried the inspector. “The papers will be full of the Birlstone mystery soon enough; but where’s the mystery if a man in London predicted the crime? We have only to find him, and the rest will follow.”

“No doubt, Mr. Mac. But how do you propose to find the so-called Porlock?”

MacDonald examined the letter Holmes had handed him. “Posted in Camberwell—that doesn’t help much. The name is assumed. Not much to go on. Didn’t you send him money?”

“Twice.”

“How?”

“In notes to the Camberwell post office.”

“Did you ever see who collected them?”

“No.”

The inspector looked surprised, and a little shocked. “Why not?”

“Because I keep my word. I promised not to trace him.”

“You think there’s someone behind him?”

“I know there is.”

“This professor you mentioned?”

“Exactly!”

Inspector MacDonald smiled and glanced at me. “I won’t hide from you that we in the C.I.D. think you have a bit of a bee in your bonnet over this professor. I made inquiries myself. He seems a respectable, learned, and talented man.”

“I’m glad you recognize the talent.”

“Man, you can’t miss it! After hearing your view, I met him. We fell to talking about eclipses. How we got there, I don’t know; but he used a lantern and a globe, and explained it all in a minute. He lent me a book, though it was a bit over my head, despite my Aberdeen upbringing. He’d have made a grand minister, with his thin face, gray hair, and solemn way of talking. When he put his hand on my shoulder as we parted, it felt like a father’s blessing.”

Holmes chuckled and rubbed his hands. “Great!” he said. “Great! Tell me, Friend MacDonald, this interview was in the professor’s study?”

“That’s so.”

“A fine room, isn’t it?”

“Very fine—very handsome indeed, Mr. Holmes.”

“You sat in front of his writing desk?”

“Just so.”

“Sun in your eyes and his face in shadow?”

“Well, it was evening, but I remember the lamp was shining on my face.”

“It would be. Did you notice a picture over the professor’s head?”

“I don’t miss much, Mr. Holmes. Maybe I learned that from you. Yes, I saw the picture—a young woman with her head on her hands, looking sideways.”

“That painting was by Jean Baptiste Greuze.”

The inspector tried to look interested. “Jean Baptiste Greuze,” Holmes continued, joining his fingertips and leaning back in his chair, “was a French artist who flourished between 1750 and 1800. I refer, of course, to his working life. Modern criticism has endorsed the high opinion his contemporaries had of him.”

The inspector’s eyes grew abstracted. “Shouldn’t we—” he began.

“We are,” Holmes interrupted. “Everything I’m saying bears directly on what you call the Birlstone Mystery. Indeed, it may be the very centre of it.”

MacDonald smiled faintly and looked at me. “Your thoughts move a bit too quickly for me, Mr. Holmes. You leave out a link or two, and I can’t follow. What’s the connection between this dead painter and the affair at Birlstone?”

“All knowledge is useful to the detective,” said Holmes. “Even the trivial fact that in 1865 a picture by Greuze, titled ‘La Jeune Fille à l’Agneau,’ sold for one million two hundred thousand francs—more than forty thousand pounds—at the Portalis sale may set a train of thought in motion.”

It clearly did. The inspector looked genuinely interested. “I might remind you,” Holmes continued, “that the professor’s salary is listed in several reliable reference books. It is seven hundred a year.”

“Then how could he buy—”

“Exactly! How could he?”

“That’s remarkable,” said the inspector thoughtfully. “Go on, Mr. Holmes. I’m enjoying this. It’s fascinating!”

Holmes smiled. Genuine admiration always warmed him—the mark of a true artist. “What about Birlstone?” he asked.

“We’ve time yet,” said the inspector, glancing at his watch. “I’ve a cab at the door, and it won’t take us twenty minutes to Victoria. But about this picture: I thought you told me once, Mr. Holmes, that you had never met Professor Moriarty.”

“No, I never have.”

“Then how do you know about his rooms?”

“Ah, that’s another matter. I’ve been in his rooms three times—twice waiting for him under different pretexts and leaving before he arrived. Once—well, I can hardly tell an official detective about that. It was on that occasion that I took the liberty of going through his papers—with unexpected results.”

“You found something compromising?”

“Absolutely nothing. That was what amazed me. However, you now see the point of the picture. It shows him to be a very wealthy man. How did he acquire his wealth? He is unmarried.

His younger brother is a station master in the west of England. His post is worth seven hundred a year. And he owns a Greuze.”

“Well?”

“Surely the inference is plain.”

“You mean he has a great income, and must earn it illegally?”

“Exactly. Of course, I have other reasons for thinking so—dozens of slight threads leading to the centre of the web where the poisonous, motionless creature lurks. I mention the Greuze because it brings the matter within your own observation.”

“Well, Mr. Holmes, I admit what you say is interesting: it’s more than interesting—it’s wonderful. But could you make it clearer? Is it forgery, coining, burglary—where does the money come from?”

“Have you ever read of Jonathan Wild?”

“Well, the name sounds familiar. Someone in a novel, wasn’t he? I don’t think much of detectives in novels—fellows who do things without showing how. That’s just inspiration, not business.”

“Jonathan Wild wasn’t a detective, and he wasn’t in a novel. He was a master criminal, living about 1750.”

“Then he’s no use to me. I’m a practical man.”

“Mr. Mac, the most practical thing you could do is shut yourself up for three months and read twelve hours a day about crime. Everything comes in circles—even Professor Moriarty. Jonathan Wild was the hidden force behind the London criminals, selling his brains and organization for a fifteen per cent commission. The old wheel turns, and the same spoke comes up. It has all been done before and will be again. I’ll tell you some things about Moriarty that may interest you.”

“You’ll interest me, for sure.”

“I know the first link in his chain—a chain with this Napoleon-gone-wrong at one end, and a hundred broken fighting men, pickpockets, blackmailers, and card-sharpers at the other, with every sort of crime in between. His chief of staff is Colonel Sebastian Moran, as aloof and guarded as he is. What do you think he pays him?”

“I’d like to hear.”

“Six thousand a year. That’s paying for brains—the American business principle. I learned that detail by chance. It’s more than the Prime Minister gets. That gives you an idea of Moriarty’s gains and the scale on which he works. Another point: I tracked down some of Moriarty’s cheques recently—just ordinary cheques for household bills. They were drawn on six different banks. Does that make any impression?”

“Queer, certainly! But what do you make of it?”

“That he wanted no gossip about his wealth. No single person was to know what he had. I have no doubt he has twenty banking accounts; the bulk of his fortune is probably abroad in the Deutsche Bank or Crédit Lyonnais. When you have a year or two to spare, I recommend studying Professor Moriarty.”

Inspector MacDonald had grown increasingly impressed as the conversation progressed. He had become absorbed in it. Now his practical Scottish intelligence snapped him back to the matter at hand. “He can wait, anyway,” he said. “You’ve sidetracked us with your interesting anecdotes, Mr. Holmes. What really matters is your remark about a connection between the professor and the crime. You got that from the warning sent through the man Porlock. Can we, for practical purposes, go any further than that?”

“We may form some idea of the motives behind the crime. As I gather from your original remarks, it is an inexplicable, or at least an unexplained, murder. Now, presuming the source of the crime to be as we suspect, there might be two different motives. First, I can tell you that Moriarty rules with an iron hand. His discipline is tremendous. There is only one punishment in his code: death. We might suppose that this murdered man—Douglas, whose fate was known by one of the arch-criminal’s subordinates—had in some way betrayed the chief. His punishment followed, as a warning to others.”

“Well, that’s one suggestion, Mr. Holmes.”

“The other is that it was engineered by Moriarty in the ordinary course of business. Was there any robbery?”

“I have not heard.”

“If so, it would weaken the first hypothesis and support the second. Moriarty may have been engaged to engineer it for a share of the spoils, or he may have been paid in advance to manage it. Either is possible. But whatever the case, or even if it is some third explanation, we must seek the solution at Birlstone. I know our man too well to think that he has left anything here which could lead us to him.”

“Then we must go to Birlstone!” cried MacDonald, jumping from his chair. “My word, it’s later than I thought. I can give you gentlemen five minutes to prepare, and no more.”

“And ample for us both,” said Holmes, as he sprang up and hurried to change from his dressing gown into his coat. “While we are on our way, Mr. Mac, I will ask you to tell me all about it.”

“All about it” proved to be disappointingly little, and yet there was enough to assure us that the case might well be worthy of an expert’s closest attention. Holmes brightened and rubbed his thin hands together as he listened to the meagre but remarkable details. A long series of barren weeks lay behind us, and here at last was a fitting object for those remarkable powers which, like all special gifts, become irksome when not in use. That razor-sharp mind grew blunted and rusted with inaction. Sherlock Holmes’s eyes glistened, his pale cheeks took on a warmer hue, and his eager face shone with an inward light when the call for work reached him. Leaning forward in the cab, he listened intently to MacDonald’s brief outline of the problem awaiting us in Sussex. The inspector was dependent, as he explained, upon a scribbled account sent to him by the milk train early in the morning. White Mason, the local officer, was a personal friend, so MacDonald had been notified far more promptly than was usual at Scotland Yard when the provinces needed assistance. It is a very cold scent upon which the Metropolitan expert is generally asked to run. “DEAR INSPECTOR MACDONALD,” read the letter which he shared with us, “Official requisition for your services is in a separate envelope. This is for your private eye.

“Wire me what train in the morning you can get for Birlstone, and I’ll meet it—or have someone meet it if I’m too occupied. This case is a snorter. Don’t waste a moment getting started. If you can bring Mr. Holmes, please do; he’ll find something after his own heart. We’d think the whole thing had been arranged for theatrical effect if there weren’t a dead man in the middle of it. My word! It’s a snorter.”

“Your friend seems no fool,” Holmes remarked.

“No, sir. White Mason is a very alert man, if I am any judge.”

“Well, have you anything more?”

“Only that he will give us every detail when we meet.”

“Then how did you learn about Mr. Douglas and the fact that he had been horribly murdered?”

“That was in the enclosed official report. It didn’t say ‘horribly’; that’s not a recognised official term. It gave the name John Douglas. It mentioned that his injuries were to the head, from the discharge of a shotgun. It also gave the hour of the alarm, which was close to midnight last night. It added that the case was undoubtedly one of murder, but that no arrest had been made, and that the case presented some very perplexing and extraordinary features. That’s absolutely all we have at present, Mr. Holmes.”

“Then, with your permission, we will leave it there, Mr. Mac. The temptation to form premature theories on insufficient data is the bane of our profession. At present I can see only two things for certain: a great brain in London, and a dead man in Sussex. It is the chain between them that we must trace.”

Chapter 3

The Tragedy of Birlstone

For a moment, I shall leave my own humble part out of it, and describe the events that occurred before we arrived, as we pieced them together afterwards. In this way only can I make the reader appreciate the people concerned and the strange setting in which their fate was cast.

The village of Birlstone is a small and very ancient cluster of half-timbered cottages on the northern border of Sussex. For centuries it had remained unchanged, but in recent years its picturesque appearance and situation have attracted well-to-do residents, whose villas peep from the surrounding woods. These woods are believed to be the fringe of the great Weald, thinning away until they reach the northern chalk downs. A number of small shops have sprung up to meet the wants of the increased population, so that Birlstone promises soon to grow from an old-world village into a modern town. It is the centre of a considerable district, with Tunbridge Wells, the nearest place of importance, ten or twelve miles to the eastward, across the Kent border.

About half a mile from the town, in an old park famous for its huge beech trees, stands the ancient Manor House of Birlstone. Part of this venerable building dates back to the time of the first Crusade, when Hugo de Capus built a fortress in the centre of the estate granted to him by the Red King. This was destroyed by fire in 1543, and some of its smoke-blackened cornerstones were used when a Jacobean brick country house rose upon the ruins of the feudal castle.

The Manor House, with its many gables and small diamond-paned windows, remains much as the builder left it in the early seventeenth century. Of the double moats which guarded its warlike predecessor, the outer has dried up and now serves as a kitchen garden. The inner moat still remains, forty feet wide, though only a few feet deep, encircling the house. A small stream feeds it and then flows on, so that the water, though turbid, is never stagnant or unhealthy. The ground-floor windows are within a foot of the water's surface.

The only approach to the house is over a drawbridge, the chains and windlass of which had long been rusted and broken. However, the latest tenants of the Manor House, with characteristic energy, had repaired it, so that the drawbridge could be raised and lowered each day. By the revival of this old custom, the Manor House becomes an island at night—a fact which had a very direct bearing upon the mystery that was soon to engage the attention of all England.

The house had been untenanted for some years and was falling into picturesque decay when the Douglases took possession of it. This family consisted of John Douglas and his wife. Douglas was remarkable both in character and in appearance. He was a man of about fifty, with a strong-jawed, rugged face, a grizzled moustache, keen grey eyes, and a wiry, vigorous figure which still retained the strength and activity of youth. Cheerful and genial, he was somewhat offhand in his manner, giving the impression that he had seen life in social strata far below the level of Sussex county society.

Though regarded with curiosity and some reserve by his more cultured neighbours, he soon became popular among the villagers, contributing generously to local causes and attending their functions. With a rich tenor voice, he would often oblige them with a song. He appeared to have plenty of money, said to have been made in the California gold fields, and it was clear from his own talk and his wife's that he had spent some part of his life in America.

His popularity increased with his reputation for fearlessness. Though a poor rider, he joined every meet, taking astonishing falls in his efforts to keep up with the best. When the vicarage caught fire, he re-entered the building without hesitation to save property after the local fire brigade had pronounced the attempt impossible. Thus, within five years, John Douglas of the Manor House had won for himself a considerable reputation in Birlstone.

His wife was also popular with those who knew her, though, in typical English fashion, few people called upon a stranger who settled in the county without introductions. This did not trouble her greatly, for she was naturally reserved and seemed wholly absorbed in her husband and her domestic duties. It was known that she was an English lady who had met Mr. Douglas in London when he was a widower. She was a beautiful woman, tall, dark, and slender, about twenty years younger than her husband—a difference that seemed to make no impression on their family life.

However, those who knew them well would sometimes remark that the confidence between husband and wife did not seem complete. The wife was either very reticent about her husband’s past or, more probably, not fully informed about it. Observant people also noted signs of nervous tension in Mrs. Douglas, particularly when her husband was late in returning home. In a quiet countryside where gossip thrives, this trait in the lady of the Manor House did not go unnoticed, and it took on significance when certain events unfolded.

Another individual, though only an intermittent resident, became prominent during the strange happenings that will now be narrated. This was Cecil James Barker, of Hales Lodge, Hampstead.

Cecil Barker’s tall, loose-jointed figure was familiar in Birlstone village, for he was a frequent and welcome visitor at the Manor House. He stood out as the only friend from Mr. Douglas’s unknown past who had appeared in his new English surroundings.

Barker was clearly an Englishman, but his remarks showed that he had first known Douglas in America and had lived closely with him there. He seemed to be wealthy and was said to be a bachelor. He was somewhat younger than Douglas—forty-five at most—a tall, straight, broad-chested man with a clean-shaven, prize-fighter’s face, thick black eyebrows, and masterful black eyes that could clear a path through a hostile crowd. He neither rode nor shot, but spent his days wandering through the village with a pipe, or driving with his host, or, in his host’s absence, with his hostess, through the countryside. “An easy-going, generous gentleman,” said Ames, the butler. “But I’d rather not be the man that crossed him!” He was cordial with Douglas and equally friendly with his wife—a friendship that sometimes irritated the husband, and in a fashion noticeable even to the servants. Such was the third person in the household when the catastrophe occurred.

As for the other inhabitants of the old building, it is enough to mention Ames, the prim, respectable, and capable butler, and Mrs. Allen, a cheerful woman who helped with the household duties. The other six servants had no connection with the events of January 6th.

At eleven-forty-five, the first alarm reached the local police station, under the charge of Sergeant Wilson of the Sussex Constabulary. Cecil Barker, very much agitated, had rushed to the door and rung the bell furiously. A terrible tragedy had occurred at the Manor House—John Douglas had been murdered. That was the breathless message which he delivered. He hurried back to the house, followed shortly afterwards by the police sergeant, who arrived a little after midnight, having promptly alerted the county authorities.

On reaching the Manor House, the sergeant found the drawbridge down, the windows lit, and the household in chaos. The white-faced servants were huddled in the hall, with the butler wringing his hands in the doorway. Only Cecil Barker seemed composed; he opened the nearest door and beckoned the sergeant to follow. At that moment Dr. Wood, a brisk and capable village practitioner, arrived. The three men entered the room together, with the horrified butler trailing behind and closing the door to shield the maidservants from the scene.

The dead man lay on his back, sprawled with outstretched limbs in the centre of the room. He wore only a pink dressing gown over his nightclothes. Carpet slippers were on his bare feet. The doctor knelt beside him and lowered the hand lamp from the table. One glance at the victim was enough to show him that his presence was unnecessary.

The man had been horribly injured. Across his chest lay a curious weapon—a shotgun with the barrel sawed off about a foot in front of the triggers. It was clear it had been fired at close range, and he had taken the full charge in the face, blowing his head almost to pieces. The triggers had been wired together to make the simultaneous discharge more deadly.

The country policeman was unnerved by the tremendous responsibility that had suddenly fallen upon him. “We will touch nothing until my superiors arrive,” he said in a hushed voice, staring in horror at the dreadful head.

“Nothing has been touched so far,” said Cecil Barker. “I’ll vouch for that. You see it exactly as I found it.”

“When was that?” The sergeant took out his notebook.

“It was just half-past eleven. I hadn’t begun to undress, and was sitting by the fire in my bedroom when I heard the report. It wasn’t very loud—it seemed muffled. I rushed down—I don’t suppose it was thirty seconds before I was in the room.”

“Was the door open?”

“Yes, it was open. Poor Douglas was lying as you see him. His bedroom candle was burning on the table. I lit the lamp a few minutes later.”

“Did you see anyone?”

“No. I heard Mrs. Douglas coming down the stairs behind me, and I rushed out to prevent her from seeing this dreadful sight. Mrs. Allen, the housekeeper, came and took her away. Ames had arrived by then, and we ran back into the room once more.”

“But surely I’ve heard that the drawbridge is kept up all night.”

“Yes, it was up until I lowered it.”

“Then how could any murderer have got away? It’s out of the question! Mr. Douglas must have shot himself.”

“That was our first idea. But look here!” Barker drew aside the curtain, showing the long, diamond-paned window standing open to its full extent. “And look at this!” He held the lamp down, illuminating a smear of blood, like the mark of a boot sole, on the wooden sill. “Someone stood there as he got out.”

“You mean someone waded across the moat?”

“Exactly!”

“Then if you were in the room within half a minute of the crime, he must have been in the water at that very moment.”

“I have no doubt of it. I wish to heaven I had rushed to the window! But the curtain screened it, as you can see, so it never occurred to me. Then I heard Mrs. Douglas’s steps, and I couldn’t let her enter the room. It would have been too horrible.”

“Horrible enough,” said the doctor, looking at the shattered head and the terrible marks around it. “I’ve not seen such injuries since the Birlstone railway smash.”

“But,” said the police sergeant, whose slow, rustic common sense was still wrestling with the open window, “it’s all very well to say a man escaped by wading this moat, but how did he get into the house at all if the bridge was up?”

“Ah, that’s the question,” said Barker. “At what time was it raised?”

“It was nearly six o’clock,” said Ames, the butler.

“I’ve heard,” said the sergeant, “that it was usually raised at sunset. That would be nearer half-past four than six at this time of year.”

“Mrs. Douglas had visitors to tea,” said Ames. “I couldn’t raise it until they left. Then I wound it up myself.”

“Then it comes to this,” said the sergeant: “If anyone came from outside—if they did—they must have got in across the bridge before six and been in hiding ever since, until Mr. Douglas came into the room after eleven.”

“That is so. Mr. Douglas went round the house every night, the last thing before he turned in, to check the lights. That brought him in here. The man was waiting and shot him. Then he got away through the window and left his gun behind. That is how I read it, for nothing else fits the facts.”

The sergeant picked up a card that lay beside the dead man on the floor. The initials V.V. and, under them, the number 341 were rudely scrawled in ink. “What’s this?” he asked, holding it up. Barker looked at it with curiosity. “I never noticed it before,” he said. “The murderer must have left it behind.”

“V.V.—341. I can make no sense of that.”

The sergeant kept turning it over in his big fingers. “What’s V.V.? Somebody’s initials, maybe. What have you got there, Dr. Wood?”

It was a good-sized hammer lying on the rug in front of the fireplace—a substantial, workmanlike tool. Cecil Barker pointed to a box of brass-headed nails on the mantelpiece. “Mr. Douglas was altering the pictures yesterday,” he said. “I saw him myself, standing on that chair and fixing the big picture above it. That explains the hammer.”

“We’d best put it back on the rug where we found it,” said the sergeant, scratching his head in perplexity. “It will take the best brains in the force to get to the bottom of this. It will be a London job before it’s done.” He raised the hand-lamp and walked slowly round the room. “Hullo!” he cried excitedly, drawing the window curtain to one side. “What time were these curtains drawn?”

“When the lamps were lit,” said the butler. “It would have been shortly after four.”

“Someone had been hiding here, sure enough.” He lowered the light, and the marks of muddy boots were clearly visible in the corner. “I’m bound to say this supports your theory, Mr. Barker. It looks as if the man got into the house after four, when the curtains were drawn, and before six, when the bridge was raised. He slipped into this room because it was the first he came to. There was nowhere else to hide, so he went behind this curtain. That all seems clear enough. It’s likely his main idea was to burgle the house, but Mr. Douglas happened to come upon him, so he murdered him and escaped.”

“That’s how I read it,” said Barker. “But aren’t we wasting precious time? Couldn’t we start out and scour the country before the fellow gets away?”

The sergeant considered for a moment. “There are no trains before six in the morning, so he can’t get away by rail. If he goes by road with his clothes all dripping, it’s likely someone will notice him. Anyhow, I can’t leave here myself until I am relieved. But I think none of you should go until we see more clearly how we stand.”

The doctor had taken the lamp and was closely examining the body. “What’s this mark?” he asked. “Could it have any connection with the crime?”

The dead man’s right arm was thrust out from his dressing gown, exposed as high as the elbow. About halfway up the forearm was a curious brown design, a triangle inside a circle, standing out in vivid relief on the pale skin. “It’s not tattooed,” said the doctor, peering through his glasses. “I’ve never seen anything like it. The man was branded at some time, like cattle. What is the meaning of this?”

“I don’t claim to know the meaning of it,” said Cecil Barker, “but I have seen the mark on Douglas many times these last ten years.”

“And so have I,” said the butler. “Many a time, when the master rolled up his sleeves, I noticed that very mark. I’ve often wondered what it could be.”

“Then it has nothing to do with the crime, anyhow,” said the sergeant. “But it’s a strange thing all the same. Everything about this case is strange. Well, what is it now?”

The butler had given an exclamation of astonishment and was pointing at the dead man’s outstretched hand. “They’ve taken his wedding ring!” he gasped.

“What!”

“Yes, indeed. Master always wore his plain gold wedding ring on the little finger of his left hand. That ring with the rough nugget on it was above it, and the twisted snake ring on the third finger. There’s the nugget and there’s the snake, but the wedding ring is gone.”

“He’s right,” said Barker.

“Do you mean to tell me,” said the sergeant, “that the wedding ring was below the other?”

“Always!”

“Then the murderer, or whoever it was, first took off this ring you call the nugget ring, then the wedding ring, and afterward put the nugget ring back again.”

“That is so!”

The country policeman shook his head. “Seems to me the sooner we get London on this case the better,” he said. “White Mason is a smart man. No local job has ever been too much for White Mason. It won’t be long now before he is here to help us. But I expect we’ll have to look to London before we are through. Anyhow, I’m not ashamed to say that it is a deal too thick for the likes of me.”

Chapter 4

Darkness

At three in the morning, the chief Sussex detective, in response to an urgent summons from Sergeant Wilson of Birlstone, arrived from headquarters in a light dog-cart behind a breathless trotter. By the five-forty train he had sent his message to Scotland Yard, and by noon he was at Birlstone station to welcome us. White Mason was a quiet, comfortable-looking man in a loose tweed suit, with a clean-shaven, ruddy face, a somewhat stout body, and powerful bandy legs adorned with gaiters. He looked more like a small farmer or a retired gamekeeper than a capable provincial criminal officer.

“A real downright snorter, Mr. MacDonald!” he kept repeating. “The press will be swarming like flies once they get wind of it. I hope we finish our work before they begin poking about and muddling the trail. I can’t recall anything like it. There are points that will interest you, Mr. Holmes, if I’m not mistaken. And you too, Dr. Watson; the medicos will have their say before we’re done. Your room is at the Westville Arms. It’s the only place, but I hear it’s clean and good. The man will carry your bags. This way, gentlemen, if you please.”

He was a bustling and genial person, this Sussex detective. Within ten minutes we had all found our quarters. Ten minutes later we were seated in the inn’s parlour, receiving a rapid sketch of the events outlined in the previous chapter. MacDonald made occasional notes, while Holmes sat absorbed, with the expression of surprised and reverent admiration with which a botanist surveys some rare bloom.

“Remarkable!” he said when the story had been told. “Most remarkable! I can hardly recall a case with more peculiar features.”

“I thought you’d say so, Mr. Holmes,” said White Mason, delighted. “We’re up with the times in Sussex. I’ve told you how matters stood when I took over from Sergeant Wilson between three and four this morning. My word, I made the old mare go! But it turned out I needn’t have hurried; there was nothing immediate I could do. Sergeant Wilson had all the facts. I checked them, considered them, and perhaps added a few of my own.”

“What were they?” asked Holmes eagerly.

“Well, I first had the hammer examined. Dr. Wood was there to help me. We found no signs of violence upon it. I had hoped Mr. Douglas might have left a mark on the murderer before dropping it on the mat. But there was no stain.”

“That, of course, proves nothing,” remarked Inspector MacDonald. “There have been many hammer murders with no trace on the hammer.”

“Quite so. It doesn’t prove it wasn’t used. But stains would have helped us. As it was, there were none. Then I examined the gun. They were buckshot cartridges, and, as Sergeant Wilson pointed out, the triggers were wired together, so that pulling the hind one discharged both barrels. Whoever set that up didn’t want to miss. The sawn gun was less than two feet long—easily carried under a coat. There was no complete maker’s name, but the printed letters P-E-N were on the fluting between the barrels, and the rest was cut off by the saw.”

“A big P with a flourish above it, E and N smaller?” asked Holmes.

“Exactly.”

“Pennsylvania Small Arms Company—a well-known American firm,” said Holmes.

White Mason gazed at my friend as a village practitioner might look at a Harley Street specialist who can solve his perplexities with a word. “That’s very helpful, Mr. Holmes. No doubt you’re right. Wonderful! Do you carry the names of all the gun-makers in your memory?”

Holmes dismissed the subject with a wave.

“No doubt it’s an American shotgun,” White Mason continued. “I’ve read that a sawn-off shotgun is used in some parts of America. Quite apart from the name on the barrel, the idea had occurred to me. There’s some evidence, then, that the man who entered the house and killed its master was an American.”

MacDonald shook his head. “Man, you’re moving too fast,” he said. “I’ve heard no evidence that any stranger was ever in the house at all.”

“The open window, the blood on the sill, the queer card, the bootmarks in the corner, the gun!”

“There’s nothing there that couldn’t have been arranged. Mr. Douglas was an American, or had lived in America. So had Mr. Barker. You needn’t import an American to account for American doings.”

“Ames, the butler—”

“What about him? Is he reliable?”

“Ten years with Sir Charles Chandos—as solid as a rock. He’s been with Douglas since he took the Manor House five years ago. He’s never seen a gun like this in the house.”

“The gun was meant to be concealed. That’s why the barrels were sawn. It would fit into any box. How could he swear there was no such gun in the house?”

“Well, anyhow, he had never seen one.”

MacDonald shook his head. “I’m not convinced anyone was ever in the house,” he said. “Consider this”—his accent grew broader as he warmed to his argument—“if you suppose this gun was brought into the house and all these strange things were done by someone from outside, it’s inconceivable. It’s against common sense. I put it to you, Mr. Holmes, on the evidence we’ve heard.”

“Well, state your case, Mr. Mac,” said Holmes in a judicial tone.

“The man isn’t a burglar, if indeed he existed. The ring and the card point to premeditated murder for some personal reason. Here’s a man who sneaks into a house with murder in his mind. He knows escape will be difficult, since the house is surrounded by water. What weapon would he choose? The most silent one, surely. Then he might hope to slip out the window, wade the moat, and get away. But would he bring the noisiest weapon possible, knowing it would rouse everyone and leave him exposed before he had crossed the moat? Is that credible, Mr. Holmes?”

“You put the case strongly,” my friend replied thoughtfully. “It certainly needs justification. May I ask, Mr. White Mason, whether you examined the far side of the moat for signs of someone climbing out?”

“There were no signs, Mr. Holmes. But it’s a stone ledge, so one wouldn’t expect any.”

“No tracks or marks?”

“None.”

“Ha! Would there be any objection, Mr. White Mason, to our going down to the house now? There may be some small point of suggestion.”

“I was going to propose it, Mr. Holmes, but I thought it best to give you the facts first. If anything strikes you—” White Mason looked doubtfully at the amateur. “I’ve worked with Mr. Holmes before,” said Inspector MacDonald. “He plays the game.”

“My own idea of the game, at any rate,” said Holmes, smiling. “My object is to help justice and the police. If I have ever separated from the official force, it is because they have separated from me. I don’t wish to score at their expense. At the same time, Mr. White Mason, I claim the right to work in my own way, and to present my results when they are complete.”

“We’re honoured by your presence, and glad to show you all we know,” said White Mason warmly. “Come along, Dr. Watson, and when the time comes we’ll hope for a place in your book.”

We walked down the quaint village street, lined with pollarded elms. Just beyond stood two ancient stone pillars, weather-stained and blotched with lichen, topped by a shapeless figure that had once been the rampant lion of Capus of Birlstone. A short walk along the winding drive, with turf and oaks such as are seen only in rural England, then a sudden turn, and the long, low Jacobean house of dingy, liver-coloured brick lay before us, with an old-fashioned garden of clipped yews on either side. As we approached, there were the wooden drawbridge and the broad moat, still and luminous in the cold winter sunshine.

Three centuries had passed over the old Manor House, centuries of births, homecomings, country dances, and fox-hunters’ meetings. Strange that now, in its old age, this dark business should cast a shadow upon its venerable walls. Yet those peaked roofs and overhanging gables were well suited to grim intrigue. As I looked at the deep-set windows and the dull-coloured front lapped by water, I felt that no more fitting scene could be set for such a tragedy. “That’s the window,” said White Mason, “the one to the right of the drawbridge. It’s open as it was found last night.”

“It looks narrow for a man to pass through.”

“Well, it wasn’t a fat man, anyhow. We don’t need your deductions, Mr. Holmes, to tell us that. But you or I could squeeze through.”

Holmes walked to the edge of the moat and looked across. Then he examined the stone ledge and the grass border beyond. “I’ve had a good look, Mr. Holmes,” said White Mason. “There’s nothing there—no sign of a landing. But why should he leave any sign?”

“Exactly. Why should he? Is the water always this turbid?”

“Generally this colour. The stream brings down clay.”

“How deep is it?”

“About two feet at the sides and three in the middle.”

“So we can dismiss the idea of his drowning while crossing.”

“No, a child couldn’t drown in it.”

We crossed the drawbridge and were admitted by a gnarled, dried-up butler, Ames. The poor fellow was white and trembling from shock. The village sergeant, a tall, formal, melancholy man, still held vigil in the room of Fate. The doctor had departed. “Anything fresh, Sergeant Wilson?” asked White Mason. “No, sir.”

“Then you can go home. You’ve had enough. We can call you if needed. The butler should wait outside. Tell him to warn Mr. Cecil Barker, Mrs. Douglas, and the housekeeper that we may want a word with them. Now, gentlemen, perhaps you’ll allow me to give you my views first, and then you can form your own.”

This country specialist impressed me. He had a solid grip on facts and a clear, common-sense mind, which should carry him far in his profession. Holmes listened intently, without the impatience the official detective so often provoked. “Is it suicide or murder—that’s our first question, isn’t it? If it were suicide, we must believe this man began by taking off his wedding ring and hiding it, then came down in his dressing gown, trampled mud behind the curtain to suggest that someone had waited for him, opened the window, and put blood on the—”

“We can dismiss that,” said MacDonald. “So I think. Suicide is out. Then it’s murder. We must determine whether it was done by someone from outside or from inside the house.”

“Well, let’s hear the argument.”

“There are difficulties either way, and yet one or other must be true. Suppose someone inside committed the crime. They got him down here when all was still, though no one was asleep. They did the deed with the noisiest weapon possible, rousing everyone—a weapon that had never been seen before. That doesn’t seem likely, does it?”

“No, it doesn’t.”

“Well, then, everyone agrees that after the alarm only a minute passed before the whole household—not just Mr. Cecil Barker, though he claims to have been first, but Ames and all—were on the spot. Do you mean to tell me that in that time the guilty party made footprints, opened the window, marked the sill with blood, removed the wedding ring, and more? It’s impossible!”

“You put it clearly,” said Holmes. “I’m inclined to agree.”

“Then we’re driven to the theory that it was done by someone from outside. We face big difficulties, but they’re not impossibilities. The man got in between four-thirty and six—that is, between dusk and the raising of the bridge. There were visitors, the door was open; nothing prevented him. He may have been a burglar, or he may have had a grudge against Mr. Douglas. Since Mr.

Douglas has spent most of his life in America, and this shotgun appears to be an American weapon, so a private grudge seems the more likely theory. He slipped into this room because it was the first he came to and hid behind the curtain. There he remained until after eleven that night. At that time, Mr. Douglas entered the room. It was a short interview, if there was any interview at all, for Mrs. Douglas declares that her husband had not left her more than a few minutes when she heard the shot.”

“The candle shows that,” said Holmes.

“Exactly. The candle, which was new, is not burned more than half an inch. He must have placed it on the table before he was attacked; otherwise it would have fallen when he fell. This shows that he was not attacked the instant he entered the room. When Mr. Barker arrived, the candle was lit and the lamp was out.”

“That’s all clear enough.”

“Well, now, we can reconstruct things along those lines. Mr. Douglas enters the room. He puts down the candle. A man appears from behind the curtain. He is armed with this gun. He demands the wedding ring—Heaven only knows why, but so it must have been. Mr. Douglas gives it up. Then, either in cold blood or in the course of a struggle—Douglas may have seized the hammer found on the mat—he shoots Douglas in this horrible way. He drops his gun and also, it would seem, this strange card—V.V. 341, whatever that may mean—and makes his escape through the window and across the moat at the very moment Cecil Barker is discovering the crime. How’s that, Mr. Holmes?”

“Very interesting, but just a little unconvincing.”

“Man, it would be absolute nonsense if it weren’t that anything else is even worse!” cried MacDonald. “Somebody killed the man, and whoever it was, I could prove clearly enough to you that he ought to have done it some other way. What does he mean by allowing his retreat to be cut off like that? What does he mean by using a shotgun when silence was his one chance of escape? Come, Mr. Holmes, it’s up to you to give us a lead, since you say Mr. White Mason’s theory is unconvincing.”

Holmes had sat in intent observation during this long discussion, missing no word that was said, his keen eyes darting to right and left and his forehead wrinkled with speculation.

“I should like a few more facts before I go so far as a theory, Mr. Mac,” said he, kneeling beside the body. “Dear me! These injuries are really appalling. Can we have the butler in for a moment?... Ames, I understand that you have often seen this very unusual mark—a branded triangle inside a circle—upon Mr. Douglas’s forearm?”

“Frequently, sir.”

“You never heard any speculation as to what it meant?”

“No, sir.”

“It must have caused great pain when it was inflicted. It is undoubtedly a burn. Now, I observe, Ames, that there is a small piece of plaster at the angle of Mr. Douglas’s jaw. Did you observe that in life?”

“Yes, sir, he cut himself shaving yesterday morning.”

“Had you ever known him to cut himself shaving before?”

“Not for a very long time, sir.”

“Suggestive!” said Holmes. “It may, of course, be a mere coincidence, or it may point to some nervousness that would indicate he had reason to fear danger. Had you noticed anything unusual in his conduct yesterday, Ames?”

“It struck me that he was a little restless and excited, sir.”

“Ha! The attack may not have been entirely unexpected. We do seem to make a little progress, do we not? Perhaps you would rather do the questioning, Mr. Mac?”

“No, Mr. Holmes, it’s in better hands than mine.”

“Well, then, we will pass to this card—V.V. 341. It is rough cardboard. Have you any of the sort in the house?”

“I don’t think so.”

Holmes walked across to the desk and dabbed a little ink from each bottle onto the blotting paper. “It was not written in this room,” he said; “this is black ink and the other purplish. It was done with a thick pen, and these are fine. No, it was done elsewhere, I should say. Can you make anything of the inscription, Ames?”

“No, sir, nothing.”

“What do you think, Mr. Mac?”

“It gives me the impression of a secret society of some sort; the same with the badge upon his forearm.”

“That’s my idea, too,” said White Mason.

“Well, we can adopt it as a working hypothesis and then see how far our difficulties disappear. An agent from such a society makes his way into the house, waits for Mr. Douglas, blows his head nearly off with this weapon, and escapes by wading the moat, after leaving a card beside the dead man which will, when mentioned in the papers, tell other members of the society that vengeance has been done. That all hangs together. But why this gun, of all weapons?”

“Exactly.”

“And why the missing ring?”

“Quite so.”

“And why no arrest? It’s past two now. I take it for granted that since dawn every constable within forty miles has been looking out for a wet stranger?”

“That is so, Mr. Holmes.”

“Well, unless he has a burrow close by, or a change of clothes ready, they can hardly miss him. And yet they have missed him up to now!” Holmes had gone to the window and was examining with his lens the blood-mark on the sill. “It is clearly the tread of a shoe. It is remarkably broad—a splay foot, one would say. Curious, because, so far as one can trace any footmark in this mud-stained corner, one would say it was a more shapely sole. However, they are certainly very indistinct. What’s this under the side-table?”

“Mr. Douglas’s dumb-bells,” said Ames.

“Dumb-bell—there’s only one. Where’s the other?”

“I don’t know, Mr. Holmes. There may have been only one. I haven’t noticed them for months.”

“One dumb-bell,” said Holmes seriously, but his comment was interrupted by a sharp knock at the door.

A tall, sunburned, capable-looking, clean-shaven man looked in at us. I had no difficulty in guessing that this was the Cecil Barker I had heard about. His masterful eyes moved quickly from face to face in a questioning glance.

“Sorry to interrupt your consultation,” he said, “but you should hear the latest news.”

“An arrest?”

“No such luck. But they’ve found his bicycle. The fellow left it behind. Come and have a look. It’s within a hundred yards of the hall door.”

We found three or four grooms and idlers standing in the drive, inspecting a bicycle which had been drawn out from a clump of evergreens where it had been concealed. It was a well-used Rudge-Whitworth, splashed as if from a considerable journey. There was a saddlebag with a spanner and oil-can, but no clue to the owner.

“It would be a great help to the police,” said the inspector, “if these things were numbered and registered. But we must be thankful for what we have. If we can’t find where he went, at least we are likely to learn where he came from.

“But what in the name of all that is wonderful made the fellow leave it behind? And how in the world did he get away without it? We don’t seem to get so much as a gleam of light in the case, Mr. Holmes.”

“Don’t we?” my friend answered thoughtfully. “I wonder!”

Chapter 5

The People of the Drama

“Have you seen all you want of the study?” asked White Mason as we re-entered the house.

“For the time being,” said the inspector, and Holmes nodded.

“Then perhaps you would now like to hear the evidence of some of the people in the house. We can use the dining room, Ames. Please come first yourself and tell us what you know.”

The butler’s account was simple and clear, and gave a convincing impression of sincerity. He had entered service five years before, when Douglas first came to Birlstone. He understood that Mr. Douglas was a wealthy gentleman who had made his money in America. He had been a kind and considerate employer—not quite what Ames had been used to, perhaps, but one cannot have everything. He had never seen any signs of apprehension in Mr. Douglas; on the contrary, he was the most fearless man he had ever known. He ordered the drawbridge to be pulled up every night because it was the ancient custom of the old house, and he liked to keep up the old ways.

Mr. Douglas seldom went to London or left the village; but the day before the crime he had been shopping at Tunbridge Wells. Ames had observed some restlessness and excitement in Mr. Douglas that day, for he had seemed impatient and irritable, which was unusual with him. He had not gone to bed that night, but was in the pantry at the back of the house, putting away the silver, when he heard the bell ring violently. He heard no shot, but it was hardly possible that he should, since the pantry and kitchens were at the very back of the house, with several closed doors and a long passage between.

The housekeeper had come out of her room, attracted by the violent ringing of the bell. They had gone to the front of the house together. As they reached the foot of the stairs, he saw Mrs. Douglas coming down. No, she was not hurrying; it did not seem to him that she was particularly agitated. Just as she reached the foot of the stairs, Mr. Barker rushed out of the study. He stopped Mrs. Douglas and begged her to go back.

“For God’s sake, go back to your room!” he cried. “Poor Jack is dead! You can do nothing. For God’s sake, go back!”

After some persuasion on the stairs, Mrs. Douglas had gone back. She did not scream. She made no outcry whatever. Mrs. Allen, the housekeeper, had taken her upstairs and stayed with her in the bedroom. Ames and Mr. Barker then returned to the study, where they found everything exactly as the police had seen it. The candle was not lit at that time, but the lamp was burning.

They looked out of the window, but the night was very dark, and nothing could be seen or heard. They then rushed out into the hall, where Ames turned the windlass to lower the drawbridge. Mr. Barker then hurried off to fetch the police. Such, in its essentials, was the evidence of the butler.

The account of Mrs. Allen, the housekeeper, was, so far as it went, a corroboration of that of her fellow-servant. The housekeeper’s room was rather nearer the front of the house than the pantry where Ames had been working. She was preparing to go to bed when the loud ringing of the bell attracted her attention. She was a little hard of hearing. Perhaps that was why she had not heard the shot, but in any case the study was a long way off. She remembered hearing some sound, which she had taken to be the slamming of a door. That was a good deal earlier—half an hour at least before the ringing of the bell.

When Mr. Ames ran to the front, she went with him. She saw Mr. Barker, very pale and excited, come out of the study. He intercepted Mrs. Douglas, who was coming down the stairs. He entreated her to go back, and she answered him, but what she said could not be heard.

“Take her up! Stay with her!” he had said to Mrs. Allen.

She had therefore taken her to the bedroom and endeavoured to soothe her. She was greatly excited, trembling all over, but made no further attempt to go downstairs. She simply sat in her dressing gown by her bedroom fire, with her head sunk in her hands. Mrs. Allen stayed with her most of the night. As to the other servants, they had all gone to bed, and the alarm did not reach them until just before the police arrived. They slept at the extreme back of the house and could not possibly have heard anything.

So far, the housekeeper could add nothing on cross-examination save lamentations and expressions of amazement.

Cecil Barker succeeded Mrs. Allen as a witness. As to the occurrences of the night before, he had very little to add to what he had already told the police. Personally, he was convinced that the murderer had escaped by the window. The bloodstain was conclusive, in his opinion, on that point. Besides, as the bridge was up, there was no other possible way of escape. He could not explain what had become of the assassin, or why he had not taken his bicycle, if it were indeed his. He could not possibly have been drowned in the moat, which was nowhere more than three feet deep.

In his own mind he had a very definite theory about the murder. Douglas was a reticent man, and there were some chapters in his life of which he never spoke. He had emigrated to America when he was a very young man. He had prospered, and Barker had first met him in California, where they had become partners in a successful mining claim at a place called Benito Canyon. They had done very well, but Douglas had suddenly sold out and started for England. He was a widower at that time. Barker had afterwards realized his money and come to live in London. Thus they had renewed their friendship.

Douglas had given him the impression that some danger hung over him. He had always believed Douglas’s sudden departure from California and his decision to rent a house in so quiet a part of England were connected with this threat. He imagined that some secret society or implacable organization was pursuing Douglas, bent on killing him. Some of Douglas’s remarks had pointed that way, though he never revealed the society’s name or how he had offended it. He assumed the legend on the placard referred to this secret society.

“How long were you with Douglas in California?” asked Inspector MacDonald.

“Five years altogether.”

“He was a bachelor, you say?”

“A widower.”

“Have you ever heard where his first wife came from?”

“No, but I remember him saying she was of German extraction. I’ve seen her portrait. She was a very beautiful woman. She died of typhoid the year before I met him.”

“You don’t connect his past with any particular part of America?”

“I’ve heard him talk of Chicago. He knew that city well and had worked there.”

“I’ve heard him talk of the coal and iron districts. He traveled a good deal in his time.”

“Was he a politician? Did this secret society have to do with politics?”

“No, he cared nothing for politics.”

“You have no reason to think it was criminal?”

“On the contrary, I never met a straighter man in my life.”

“Was there anything curious about his life in California?”

“He preferred to stay and work at our claim in the mountains. He avoided other men if he could. That’s why I first thought someone was after him. When he left so suddenly for Europe, I was sure of it. I believe he’d had some sort of warning. Within a week of his leaving, half a dozen men were asking for him.”

“What sort of men?”

“They were a rough-looking crowd. They came to the claim wanting to know where he was. I told them he had gone to Europe and that I didn’t know where to find him. They meant him no good—it was easy to see.”

“Were these men Americans—Californians?”

“I don’t know about Californians. They were Americans, but not miners. I don’t know what they were, and I was glad to see them go.”

“That was six years ago?”

“Nearly seven.”

“And then you were together five years in California, so this business dates back at least eleven years?”

“That’s right.”

“It must be a very serious feud to last so long. It would be no light thing that caused it.”

“I think it shadowed his whole life. It was never quite out of his mind.”

“But if a man had some danger hanging over him and knew what it was, don’t you think he would turn to the police for protection?”

“Maybe it was a danger he couldn’t be protected against. There’s one thing you should know. He always went about armed. His revolver was never out of his pocket. But by bad luck he was in his dressing gown and had left it in the bedroom last night. Once the bridge was up, I guess he thought he was safe.”

“I’d like these dates a little clearer,” said MacDonald. “It’s a full six years since Douglas left California. You followed him the next year, didn’t you?”

“That’s right.”

“And he had been married five years. You must have come back about the time of his marriage.”

“About a month before. I was his best man.”

“Did you know Mrs. Douglas before her marriage?”

“No, I didn’t. I had been away from England for ten years.”

“But you’ve seen a good deal of her since.”

Barker looked sternly at the detective. “I’ve seen a good deal of him since,” he answered. “If I’ve seen her, it’s because you can’t visit a man without knowing his wife. If you imagine there’s any connection—”

“I imagine nothing, Mr. Barker. I’m bound to make every inquiry that may bear upon the case. But I mean no offense.”

“Some inquiries are offensive,” Barker answered angrily. “It’s only the facts we want. It’s in your interest and everyone’s interest that they should be cleared up. Did Mr. Douglas entirely approve of your friendship with his wife?”

Barker grew paler, and his strong hands clasped convulsively. “You have no right to ask such questions!” he cried. “What has this to do with the matter you are investigating?”

“I must repeat the question.”

“Well, I refuse to answer.”

“You can refuse, but you must be aware that your refusal is, in itself, an answer, for you would not refuse if you had nothing to conceal.”

Barker stood for a moment, his face set grimly, his dark eyebrows drawn low in thought. Then he looked up with a smile. “Well, I guess you gentlemen are only doing your duty, and I’ve no right to stand in the way of it. I’d only ask you not to worry Mrs. Douglas over this matter, for she has enough on her mind right now. I may tell you that poor Douglas had just one fault in the world, and that was his jealousy. He was fond of me—no man could be fonder of a friend. And he was devoted to his wife. He loved to have me come here and was always sending for me. Yet if his wife and I talked together, or there seemed any sympathy between us, a wave of jealousy would pass over him, and he’d fly off the handle and say the wildest things. More than once, I’ve sworn off coming for that reason, and then he’d write me such penitent, imploring letters that I just had to. But you can take it from me, gentlemen, if it was my last word, that no man ever had a more loving, faithful wife—and I can say also that no friend could be more loyal than I!”

It was spoken with fervour and feeling, yet Inspector MacDonald could not let the matter drop. “You are aware,” he said, “that the dead man’s wedding ring has been taken from his finger?”

“So it appears,” said Barker.

“What do you mean by ‘appears’? You know it as a fact.”

The man seemed confused and uncertain. “When I said ‘appears,’ I meant that it was conceivable that he had taken off the ring himself.”

“The mere fact that the ring is gone, whoever removed it, suggests that the marriage and the tragedy are connected, would you not agree?”

Barker shrugged his broad shoulders. “I can’t say what it means,” he answered. “But if you’re hinting that it could reflect on this lady’s honour”—his eyes blazed for an instant, then with an effort he controlled himself—“well, you’re on the wrong track, that’s all.”

“I don’t know that I have anything else to ask you at present,” said MacDonald coldly.

“There was one small point,” remarked Sherlock Holmes. “When you entered the room, there was only a candle burning on the table, was there not?”

“Yes, that was so.”

“By its light, you saw that some terrible thing had occurred?”

“Exactly.”

“You rang for help at once?”

“Yes.”

“And it came very speedily?”

“Within a minute or so.”

“And yet when they arrived, they found the candle was out and the lamp had been lit. That seems very remarkable.”

Again Barker showed signs of indecision. “I don’t see that it was remarkable, Mr. Holmes,” he answered after a pause. “The candle gave a very poor light. My first thought was to get a better one. The lamp was on the table, so I lit it.”

“And blew out the candle?”

“Exactly.”

Holmes asked no further questions, and Barker, with a deliberate look from one to the other of us, which carried a hint of defiance, turned and left the room.

Inspector MacDonald had sent up a note to say that he would wait upon Mrs. Douglas in her room, but she replied that she would meet us in the dining room.

She entered now, a tall and beautiful woman of thirty, reserved and remarkably self-possessed, very different from the tragic and distracted figure I had imagined. Her face was pale and drawn, like that of one who has endured a great shock, but her manner was composed, and the finely shaped hand that rested on the table was as steady as my own. Her sad, appealing eyes moved from one to another of us with a curious, searching expression. That questioning gaze suddenly broke into speech. “Have you found anything out yet?” she asked. Was it my imagination, or was there an undertone of fear rather than hope in the question?

“We have taken every possible step, Mrs. Douglas,” said the inspector. “You may rest assured that nothing will be neglected.”

“Spare no money,” she said in a dead, even tone. “It is my wish that every possible effort be made.”

“Perhaps you can tell us something that may throw light on the matter.”

“I fear not, but all I know is at your service.”

“We have heard from Mr. Cecil Barker that you did not actually see—that you were never in the room where the tragedy occurred?”

“No, he turned me back on the stairs. He begged me to return to my room.”

“Quite so. You heard the shot and came down at once.”

“I put on my dressing gown and then came down.”

“How long after hearing the shot were you stopped on the stairs by Mr. Barker?”

“It may have been a couple of minutes. It’s hard to reckon time at such a moment. He implored me not to go on. He assured me I could do nothing. Then Mrs. Allen, the housekeeper, led me upstairs again. It was all like some dreadful dream.”

“Can you give us any idea how long your husband had been downstairs before you heard the shot?”

“No, I cannot say. He went from his dressing room, and I didn’t hear him go. He made the round of the house every night, for he was nervous about fire. It is the only thing I have ever known him to be nervous about.”

“That is just the point I want to come to, Mrs. Douglas. You have known your husband only in England, have you not?”

“Yes, we have been married five years.”

“Have you heard him speak of anything that occurred in America which might bring some danger upon him?”

Mrs. Douglas thought earnestly before she answered. “Yes,” she said at last, “I have always felt that there was a danger hanging over him. He refused to discuss it with me. It was not from any lack of confidence in me—there was complete love and confidence between us—but from his desire to keep all alarm from me. He thought I would brood over it if I knew all, so he was silent.”

“How did you know it, then?”

Mrs. Douglas’s face lit with a quick smile. “Can a husband carry a secret with him all his life, and a woman who loves him have no suspicion of it? I knew it by his refusal to talk about some episodes in his American life. I knew it by certain precautions he took. I knew it by certain words he let fall. I knew it by the way he looked at unexpected strangers. I was perfectly certain that he had some powerful enemies, that he believed they were on his track, and that he was always on guard against them. I was so sure of it that for years I have been terrified whenever he came home later than expected.”

“Might I ask,” said Holmes, “what were the words that attracted your attention?”

“The Valley of Fear,” the lady answered. “That was an expression he used when I questioned him. ‘I have been in the Valley of Fear. I am not out of it yet.’—‘Are we never to get out of the Valley of Fear?’ I asked him once, when I saw him more serious than usual. ‘Sometimes I think we never shall,’ he answered.”

“Surely you asked him what he meant by the Valley of Fear?”

“I did, but his face would grow very grave, and he would shake his head. ‘It is bad enough that one of us should have been in its shadow,’ he said. ‘Please God it shall never fall upon you!’ It was some real valley where he had lived, and where something terrible had happened to him; of that I am certain. But I can tell you no more.”

“And he never mentioned any names?”

“Yes, he was delirious with fever once, when he had his hunting accident three years ago. Then I remember a name that was continually on his lips. He spoke it with anger and a kind of horror. McGinty was the name—Bodymaster McGinty. I asked him, when he recovered, who Bodymaster McGinty was, and whose body he was master of. ‘Never of mine, thank God!’ he answered with a laugh, and that was all I could get from him. But there is a connection between Bodymaster McGinty and the Valley of Fear.”

“There is one other point,” said Inspector MacDonald. “You met Mr. Douglas in a boarding house in London, did you not, and became engaged to him there? Was there any romance, anything secret or mysterious, about the wedding?”

“There was romance. There is always romance. There was nothing mysterious.”

“He had no rival?”

“No, I was quite free.”

“You have heard, no doubt, that his wedding ring has been taken. Does that suggest anything to you? Suppose some enemy from his old life tracked him down and committed this crime—what possible reason could he have for taking his wedding ring?”

For an instant I could have sworn that the faintest shadow of a smile flickered over the woman’s lips. “I really cannot tell,” she answered. “It is certainly a most extraordinary thing.”

“Well, we will not detain you any longer, and we are sorry to have put you to this trouble at such a time,” said the inspector. “There are some other points, no doubt, but we can refer to you as they arise.”

She rose, and I was again conscious of that quick, questioning glance with which she had just surveyed us. What impression has my evidence made upon you? The question might as well have been spoken. Then, with a bow, she swept from the room.

“She’s a beautiful woman—a very beautiful woman,” said MacDonald thoughtfully, after the door had closed behind her. “This man Barker has certainly been down here a good deal. He is a man who might be attractive to a woman. He admits that the dead man was jealous, and maybe he himself knew best what cause he had given for jealousy. Then there’s that wedding ring. You can’t get past that. The man who tears a wedding ring off a dead man’s—What do you make of it, Mr. Holmes?”

My friend had sat with his head upon his hands, sunk in the deepest thought. Now he rose and rang the bell. “Ames,” he said, when the butler entered, “where is Mr. Cecil Barker now?”

“I’ll see, sir.”

He came back in a moment to say that Barker was in the garden.

“Can you remember, Ames, what Mr. Barker had on his feet last night when you joined him in the study?”

“Yes, Mr. Holmes. He had a pair of bedroom slippers. I brought him his boots when he went for the police.”

“Where are the slippers now?”

“They are still under the chair in the hall.”

“Very good, Ames. It is, of course, important for us to know which tracks may be Mr. Barker’s and which are from outside.”

“Yes, sir. I may say that I noticed the slippers were stained with blood—so indeed were my own.”

“That is natural enough, considering the condition of the room. Very good, Ames. We will ring if we want you.”

A few minutes later we were in the study. Holmes had brought with him the carpet slippers from the hall. As Ames had observed, the soles of both were dark with blood.

“Strange!” murmured Holmes, as he stood in the light of the window and examined them closely. “Very strange indeed!”

Stooping with one of his quick feline pounces, he placed the slipper upon the blood-mark on the sill. It matched exactly. He smiled in silence at his colleagues.

The inspector was transformed with excitement. His native accent rattled like a stick upon railings.

“Man,” he cried, “there’s not a doubt of it! Barker has made the mark on the window himself. It’s a good deal broader than any boot-mark. I remember that you said it was a splay-foot, and here’s the explanation. But what’s the game, Mr. Holmes—what’s the game?”

“Ay, what’s the game?” my friend repeated thoughtfully.

White Mason chuckled and rubbed his fat hands together in professional satisfaction.

“I said it was a snorter!” he cried. “And a real snorter it is!”

Chapter 6

A Dawning Light

The three detectives had many details to investigate, so I returned alone to our modest quarters at the village inn. Before doing so, I took a stroll in the curious old-world garden beside the house. Rows of ancient yew trees, clipped into strange designs, enclosed it. Inside lay a beautiful stretch of lawn with an old sundial in the middle. The whole effect was so soothing and restful that it came as a welcome relief to my somewhat jangled nerves. In that deeply peaceful atmosphere one could forget—or remember only as a fantastic nightmare—that darkened study with the sprawling, bloodstained figure upon the floor. Yet, as I walked about and tried to steep my soul in its gentle balm, a strange incident occurred which brought me back to the tragedy and left a sinister impression upon my mind.

A ring of yew trees circled the garden. At the end farthest from the house, they thickened into a continuous hedge. On the far side of this hedge, hidden from anyone approaching from the house, there was a stone seat. As I drew near, I became aware of voices—a man's deep tones, answered by a ripple of feminine laughter.

An instant later I rounded the end of the hedge and saw Mrs. Douglas and the man Barker before they noticed me. Her appearance shocked me. In the dining-room she had been demure and discreet. Now all pretence of grief had vanished. Her eyes shone with the joy of living, and her face quivered with amusement at some remark of her companion. He sat forward, his hands clasped, his forearms on his knees, with an answering smile upon his bold, handsome face. In an instant—but just one instant too late—they resumed their solemn masks as I came into view. A hurried word or two passed between them, and then Barker rose and came towards me.

"Excuse me, sir," said he, "but am I addressing Dr. Watson?"

I bowed with a coldness which no doubt showed the impression made upon my mind.

"We thought it was probably you, as your friendship with Mr. Sherlock Holmes is well known. Would you mind coming over and speaking to Mrs. Douglas for a moment?"

I followed him with a dour face. Clearly enough, I could see in my mind's eye that shattered figure upon the floor. Here, within a few hours of the tragedy, were his wife and his closest friend laughing together behind a hedge in the garden which had been his. I greeted the lady with reserve. I had grieved with her in the dining-room. Now I met her appealing gaze with an unresponsive eye.

"I fear you think me callous and hard-hearted," she said.

I shrugged my shoulders.

"It is no business of mine," said I.

"Perhaps some day you will do me justice. If you only realized—"

"There is no need for Dr. Watson to realize," said Barker quickly. "As he has himself said, it is no business of his."

"Exactly," said I, "and so I will beg leave to resume my walk."

"One moment, Dr. Watson," the woman pleaded. "There is one question you can answer with more authority than any one else, and it may make a great difference to me. You know Mr. Holmes and his relations with the police better than any one. If a matter were brought confidentially to his knowledge, would it be absolutely necessary for him to pass it on to the detectives?"

"Yes, that is it," said Barker eagerly. "Is he on his own, or is he entirely with them?"

"I really don't know that I should discuss such a point."

"I beg—I implore you, Dr. Watson! I assure you, you will help us greatly if you can guide us upon that point."

There was such sincerity in her voice that for the moment I forgot her levity and was moved to do her will.

"Mr. Holmes is an independent investigator," said I. "He is his own master and would act as his judgment directs. At the same time, he would naturally feel loyalty towards the officials who are working on the same case, and he would not conceal anything which would help them to bring a criminal to justice. Beyond that, I can say nothing, and I would refer you to Mr. Holmes for fuller information."

So saying, I raised my hat and went on my way, leaving them still seated behind the hedge. I looked back as I rounded the far end and saw that they were still talking earnestly together. As they gazed after me, it was clear that our interview was the subject of their debate.

"I wish none of their confidences," said Holmes when I had reported to him what had occurred. He had spent the whole afternoon at the Manor House in consultation with his colleagues and returned about five with a ravenous appetite for a high tea which I had ordered. "No confidences, Watson; they are awkward things if it comes to an arrest for conspiracy and murder."

"You think it will come to that?"

He was in his most cheerful and debonair humour. "My dear Watson, when I have exterminated that fourth egg, I shall be ready to put you in touch with the whole situation. I don't say that we have fathomed it—far from it—but when we have traced the missing dumb-bell—"

"The dumb-bell!"

"Dear me, Watson, is it possible that you have not grasped that the case hangs upon the missing dumb-bell? Well, well, do not be downcast; between ourselves, I don't think either Inspector Mac or the excellent local practitioner has grasped the overwhelming importance of this incident. One dumb-bell, Watson! Consider an athlete with one dumb-bell! Picture the one-sided development, the imminent danger of a spinal curvature. Shocking, Watson, shocking!"

He sat with his mouth full of toast and his eyes sparkling with mischief, watching my intellectual entanglement. The mere sight of his excellent appetite was in itself an assurance of success; for I had clear recollections of days and nights without a thought of food, when his baffled mind chafed before some problem, while his thin, eager features became more attenuated with the asceticism of complete mental concentration. Finally he lit his pipe and, sitting in the inglenook of the old village inn, talked slowly and discursively about his case, more as one who thinks aloud than as one making a considered statement.

“A lie, Watson—a great, obvious, uncompromising lie—that’s what we are up against from the outset! There is our starting point. The whole story told by Barker is a lie. But Mrs. Douglas supports Barker’s story.

So she is lying too. They are both lying, and in collusion. There we have our clear problem. Why are they lying, and what truth are they trying so hard to conceal? Let us try, Watson, you and I, to get behind the lie and find the truth.

“How do I know they are lying? Because it is a clumsy fabrication, and one that could not possibly be true. Think! According to their story, the murderer had less than a minute after the crime in which to take the ring, which was beneath another ring, from the dead man’s finger, replace the other ring—a thing he would certainly never do—and lay that card beside his victim. I say that is obviously impossible.

“You might argue—but I credit your judgment too highly to suppose that you will—that the ring was taken before the man was killed. The fact that the candle was only lit for a very short time proves that there was no long interview. Was Douglas, from all that we know of his dauntless character, likely to surrender his wedding ring at so short a notice, or indeed at all? No, Watson, the assassin was with the dead man for some time with the lamp lit. Of that I have no doubt.

“But the gunshot was apparently the cause of death. Therefore the shot must have been fired earlier than we are told. But there could be no possible mistake about that. We are dealing with a deliberate conspiracy by the two people who heard the gunshot—Barker and Mrs. Douglas. When I show you that the blood-mark upon the window-sill was put there deliberately by Barker in order to give the police a false trail, you will admit that the case looks black against him.

“Now we have to ask ourselves at what hour the murder really did occur. Up to half-past ten the servants were still moving about the house, so it was not before then. By a quarter to eleven they had all gone to their rooms except Ames, who was in the pantry. I have made some experiments since you left us this afternoon, and I find that no noise which MacDonald can make in the study can reach me in the pantry when the doors are all shut.

“On the other hand, it is different with the housekeeper’s room. It is not so far down the passage, and from there I could hear a voice faintly if it were very loud. The sound from a shotgun is considerably muffled when fired at close range, as it was here. It would not be very loud, and yet, in the silence of the night, it should have reached Mrs. Allen’s room. She is somewhat deaf, as she told us, but she spoke of hearing something like a door slamming half an hour before the alarm was raised. Half an hour before the alarm would be a quarter to eleven. I have no doubt that what she heard was the gunshot, and that this marks the true time of the murder.

“If that is so, we have to determine what Barker and Mrs. Douglas, supposing that they are not themselves the actual murderers, were doing from a quarter to eleven, when the shot brought them down, until a quarter past eleven, when they rang the bell and summoned the servants. What were they doing, and why did they not instantly give the alarm? That is the question which confronts us, and in answering it we shall go some way towards solving our problem.”

“I am convinced,” said I, “that there is an understanding between those two. She must be a heartless woman to laugh at a joke within a few hours of her husband’s murder.”

“Exactly. She does not show to advantage as a wife, even in her own account. I am not an ardent admirer of womankind, as you know, Watson, but life has taught me that there are few wives who have any regard for their husbands who would let any man’s word stand between them and their husband’s dead body. If ever I marry, Watson, I should hope to inspire my wife with some feeling which would keep her from being marched off by a housekeeper while my body lay within a few yards of her. It was badly stage-managed. Even the crudest investigator would be struck by the absence of the usual feminine grief. If there were nothing else, this alone would suggest to me a prearranged conspiracy.”

“You think Barker and Mrs. Douglas are guilty of murder?”

“There is an appalling directness in your questions, Watson,” said Holmes, wagging his pipe at me. “They come like bullets. If you mean, do Mrs. Douglas and Barker know the truth of the murder and are they conspiring to conceal it, then I can answer you with confidence. I am sure they do. But your more serious suggestion is not so clear. Let us consider the difficulties.

“Suppose that this couple are bound together by guilty love and have determined to do away with the man who stands between them. It is a large supposition; discreet inquiries among the servants and others have not supported it. On the contrary, there is a good deal of evidence that the Douglases were very attached to one another.”

“That can’t be true,” I said, thinking of the beautiful smiling face in the garden.

“Well, that is the impression they gave. Still, let us suppose that they are a deep pair, deceiving everyone and conspiring to murder the husband. He is a man with some danger hanging over him—”

“We only have their word for that.”

Holmes looked thoughtful. “I see, Watson. You are suggesting a theory in which everything they say is false. According to you, there was no hidden danger, no secret society, no Valley of Fear, no Boss McGinty, nor anything else. That is certainly a comprehensive hypothesis. Let us see where it leads us. They invent this theory to account for the crime. They reinforce it by leaving a bicycle in the park as evidence of an outsider. The stain upon the window-sill points in the same direction. So does the card upon the body, which could well have been prepared in the house. So far your hypothesis holds together, Watson. But now we come to the awkward, stubborn facts which do not fit. Why a sawn-off shotgun of all weapons—and an American one at that? How could they be sure that the sound would not bring someone down upon them?”

It was only by sheer chance that Mrs. Allen did not go to investigate the slamming door. “Why did your guilty pair do all this, Watson?”

“I confess I can’t explain it.”

“Then again, if a woman and her lover conspire to murder her husband, would they advertise their guilt by removing his wedding ring after his death? Does that strike you as likely, Watson?”

“No, it does not.”

“And if the idea of leaving a bicycle hidden outside occurred to you, would it really seem worth doing? Even the dullest detective would see it as an obvious blind, since the bicycle is the first thing the fugitive would need in order to escape.”

“I can think of no explanation.”

“And yet there should be no combination of events for which the wit of man cannot conceive an explanation. Simply as a mental exercise, without asserting that it is true, let me suggest a possible line of thought. It is, I admit, mere imagination; but how often is imagination the mother of truth? Suppose there was a guilty secret, a truly shameful one, in Douglas’s life. This leads to his murder by someone who is, let us say, an avenger from outside. This avenger, for some reason I cannot yet explain, took the dead man’s wedding ring. The vendetta might date back to the man’s first marriage, and the ring was taken for that reason.

“Before the avenger got away, Barker and the wife reached the room. The assassin convinced them that any attempt to arrest him would lead to a scandal. They accepted this and let him go. They probably lowered the bridge, which can be done silently, and then raised it again. He escaped, and for some reason thought it safer to go on foot than by bicycle, leaving it where it would not be found until he was safely away. So far we are within the bounds of possibility, are we not?”

“Well, it is possible, no doubt,” I said, with some reserve.

“We must remember, Watson, that whatever occurred is certainly extraordinary. Now, to continue our hypothetical case, the pair—not necessarily guilty—realised they were in a position in which it might be difficult to prove that they did not commit or abet the deed. They dealt with the situation quickly and clumsily. The mark was made by Barker’s bloodstained slipper on the windowsill to suggest how the fugitive escaped. They were obviously the ones who heard the gun, so they gave the alarm as they would have done, but half an hour after the event.”

“And how do you propose to prove all this?”

“If there was an outsider, he may be traced and caught. That would be the most effective proof. But if not, the resources of science are far from exhausted. I think an evening alone in that study would help me greatly.”

“An evening alone!”

“I mean to go up there shortly. I have arranged it with Ames, who is not entirely in sympathy with Barker. I shall sit in that room and see if its atmosphere brings me inspiration. I am a believer in the genius loci. You smile, Watson. Well, we shall see. By the way, you have your big umbrella, have you not?”

“It’s here.”

“I shall borrow that, if I may.”

“Certainly—but what a wretched weapon! If there is danger—“

“Nothing serious, my dear Watson, or I should certainly ask for your assistance. But I shall take the umbrella. I am only waiting for our colleagues to return from Tunbridge Wells, where they are trying to find the owner of the bicycle.”

It was nightfall before Inspector MacDonald and White Mason returned from their expedition. They arrived exultant, reporting a great advance in our investigation.

“Man, I’ll admit I had my doubts that there was an outsider,” said MacDonald, “but that’s all past now. We’ve identified the bicycle and have a description of our man; that’s a big step forward.”

“It sounds like the beginning of the end,” said Holmes. “I congratulate you both with all my heart.”

“Well, I started from the fact that Mr. Douglas seemed disturbed from the day before, when he was at Tunbridge Wells. It was there he became aware of some danger. It was clear that, if a man came over with a bicycle, he came from Tunbridge Wells. We took the bicycle and showed it at the hotels. It was identified by the manager of the Eagle Commercial as belonging to a man named Hargrave, who had taken a room there two days before. This bicycle and a small valise were his only belongings. He registered as coming from London, but gave no address. The valise was London-made, and the contents were British; but the man himself was undoubtedly American.”

“Well, well,” said Holmes gleefully, “you’ve done solid work while I’ve been here spinning theories with my friend! It’s a lesson in being practical, Mr. Mac.”

“Ay, it’s just that, Mr. Holmes,” said the inspector, with satisfaction.

“But this may fit in with your theories,” I remarked.

“That may or may not be. But let us hear the end, Mr. Mac. Was there nothing to identify this man?”

“So little that it was clear he had carefully guarded against identification. There were no papers or letters, and no markings on the clothes. A cycle map of the county lay on his bedroom table. He left the hotel after breakfast yesterday morning on his bicycle, and nothing more was heard of him until our inquiries.”

“That’s what puzzles me, Mr. Holmes,” said White Mason. “If the fellow didn’t want the hue and cry raised, you’d think he’d have come back and stayed at the hotel as an inoffensive tourist. As it is, he must know he will be reported to the police by the hotel manager, and his disappearance will be linked to the murder.”

“So one would imagine. Still, his wisdom has been justified so far, since he hasn’t been caught. But his description—what of that?”

MacDonald referred to his notebook. “Here it is, as best they could give it. They didn’t seem to notice him particularly, but the porter, the clerk, and the chambermaid all agree on these details.

He was about five foot nine, around fifty years old, with slightly grizzled hair, a greyish moustache, a curved nose, and a face they described as fierce and forbidding.”

“Well, apart from the expression, that could almost describe Douglas himself,” said Holmes. “He’s just over fifty, with grizzled hair and moustache, and about the same height. Did you get anything else?”

“He was dressed in a heavy grey suit with a reefer jacket, and wore a short yellow overcoat and a soft cap.”

“What about the shotgun?”

“It’s less than two feet long. It could easily fit into his valise. He could have carried it inside his overcoat without difficulty.”

“And how do you think this affects the general case?”

“Well, Mr. Holmes,” said MacDonald, “once we have our man—and I had his description on the wires within five minutes of hearing it—we’ll be better able to judge. But even now we’ve made progress. We know that an American calling himself Hargrave came to Tunbridge Wells two days ago with a bicycle and a valise. The valise contained a sawed-off shotgun; he came with the intent to commit a crime. Yesterday morning he set off for this place on his bicycle, with the gun concealed in his overcoat. No one saw him arrive, as far as we know; but he didn’t need to pass through the village to reach the park gates, and there are many cyclists on the road. Presumably he concealed his bicycle among the laurels where it was found, and possibly hid there himself, watching the house and waiting for Mr. Douglas to come out. The shotgun is unusual for indoor use, but he intended to use it outside, where it has obvious advantages. It would be hard to miss with it, and the sound of shots is common in an English sporting district, so no one would take particular notice.”

“That’s all very clear,” said Holmes. “Well, Mr. Douglas didn’t appear. What was he to do next? He left his bicycle and approached the house at twilight. He found the bridge down and no one about. He took his chance, intending to make some excuse if he met anyone. He met no one. He slipped into the first room he saw and hid behind the curtain. From there he could see the drawbridge go up, knowing his only escape was through the moat. He waited until quarter past eleven, when Mr. Douglas, on his usual nightly round, entered the room. He shot him and escaped, as planned. He knew the bicycle would be described by the hotel staff and become a clue against him, so he left it there and made his way by other means to London or to a prearranged hiding-place. How is that, Mr. Holmes?”

“Well, Mr. Mac, it’s very good and clear, as far as it goes. That’s your end of the story. My end is that the crime was committed half an hour earlier than reported; that Mrs. Douglas and Barker are conspiring to conceal something; that they aided the murderer’s escape—or at least reached the room before he escaped—and fabricated evidence of his escape through the window, when they probably let him go by lowering the bridge. That’s my reading of the first half.”

The two detectives shook their heads.

“Well, Mr. Holmes, if this is true, we only tumble from one mystery into another,” said the London inspector.

“And in some ways a worse one,” added White Mason. “The lady has never been to America in her life. What possible connection could she have with an American assassin that would lead her to shelter him?”

“I freely admit the difficulties,” said Holmes. “I plan to conduct a little investigation of my own tonight, and it may contribute something to the common cause.”

“Can we help you, Mr. Holmes?”

“No, no! Darkness and Dr. Watson’s umbrella—my needs are simple. And Ames, the faithful Ames, will no doubt stretch a point for me. All my thoughts lead me back to one basic question—why should an athletic man develop his frame with so unnatural an instrument as a single dumbbell?”

It was late that night when Holmes returned from his solitary excursion. We slept in a double-bedded room, the best the little country inn could offer. I was already asleep when I was partly awakened by his entrance.

“Well, Holmes,” I murmured, “have you found anything out?”

He stood beside me in silence, his candle in his hand. Then the tall, lean figure bent towards me.

“I say, Watson,” he whispered, “would you be afraid to sleep in the same room with a lunatic—a man with softening of the brain, an idiot whose mind has lost its grip?”

“Watson, would you be afraid to sleep in the same room with a lunatic?”

“Not in the least,” I answered in astonishment.

“Ah, that’s lucky,” he said, and not another word would he utter that night.

Chapter 7

The Solution

The next morning, after breakfast, we found Inspector MacDonald and White Mason deep in discussion in the small parlour of the local police sergeant. On the table before them was a pile of letters and telegrams, which they were sorting carefully. Three had been set aside.

“Still on the trail of the elusive bicyclist?” Holmes asked cheerfully. “What’s the latest of the ruffian?”

MacDonald pointed ruefully to his heap of correspondence.

“He’s been reported in Leicester, Nottingham, Southampton, Derby, East Ham, Richmond, and fourteen other places. In East Ham, Leicester, and Liverpool, there’s a clear case against him, and he’s actually been arrested. The country seems full of fugitives in yellow coats.”

“Dear me!” said Holmes sympathetically. “Now, Mr. Mac, and you, Mr. White Mason, I want to give you some earnest advice. When I joined this case, I promised not to put forward half-proved theories, but to work out my ideas until I was sure they were correct. For that reason, I’m not telling you everything that is in my mind at present. However, I said I would play fair, and I do not think it fair that you should waste your energies upon a fruitless task. So I advise you this morning to abandon the case.”

MacDonald and White Mason stared in amazement.

“You consider it hopeless!” cried the inspector.

“I consider your case hopeless. I don’t consider it hopeless to find the truth.”

“But this cyclist. He’s not an invention. We have his description, his valise, his bicycle. He must be somewhere. Why shouldn’t we get him?”

“Yes, yes, he’s somewhere, and we shall get him; but don’t waste your energies in East Ham or Liverpool. I’m sure we can find a shorter road to the result.”

“You’re holding something back. It’s hardly fair, Mr. Holmes.” The inspector was annoyed.

“You know my methods, Mr. Mac. I shall hold back for the shortest possible time. I have only to verify one thing, and then I shall return to London, leaving the fruits of my inquiry at your disposal. I owe you that much for so interesting a study.”

“This is beyond me, Mr. Holmes. We saw you last night, and you agreed with our conclusions. What’s changed?”

“Well, I spent some hours last night at the Manor House.”

“What happened?”

“I can only give you a general answer for the moment. By the way, I have been reading a short account of the old building, obtainable for a penny from the village tobacconist.”

Holmes drew a small tract with a crude engraving of the Manor House from his pocket.

“It gives an added interest to an investigation when one is in sympathy with the historical atmosphere of one’s surroundings. Even so humble a brochure as this can conjure up the picture of the past. Let me give you a sample. ‘Erected in the fifth year of the reign of James the First, and standing upon the site of an older building, the Manor House of Birlstone is one of the finest surviving examples of the moated Jacobean residence—’”

“You’re making fools of us, Mr. Holmes!”

“Tut, tut, Mr. Mac!—the first sign of temper I’ve seen in you. I won’t read it all, but there is an account of its capture by a Parliamentary colonel in 1644, Charles’s concealment during the Civil War, and a visit from the second George. There are various associations of interest connected with this house.”

“I don’t doubt it, Mr. Holmes, but that’s not our business.”

“Is it not? Breadth of view is one of the essentials of our profession. The interplay of ideas and the indirect uses of knowledge are often fascinating. Excuse these observations from one who, though a mere connoisseur of crime, is still rather older and perhaps more experienced than yourself.”

“I admit that,” said the detective heartily. “You get to your point, but you have a deuced roundabout way of doing it.”

“I’ll drop the past history and get to present facts. I called at the Manor House last night. I did not see Barker or Mrs. Douglas. I saw no need to disturb them, but I was pleased to hear that the lady showed no signs of being upset and had eaten an excellent dinner. My visit was to Mr. Ames, with whom I had some business. In his company I made a somewhat closer inspection of the study.”

“What! With that?” I exclaimed.

“No, no, everything is in order. You gave permission, Mr. Mac. The room was exactly as before, and I spent an instructive quarter of an hour there.”

“What were you doing?”

“I was looking for the missing dumb-bell. It had become a most important factor in my view of the case. I found it.”

“Where?”

“Ah, there we come to the edge of the unexplored. Let me go a little farther, and I promise that before I leave it all will be clear as far as I am concerned.”

“Well, we’re bound to take you on your own terms,” said the inspector. “But why should we abandon the case?”

“Because you have no idea what it is that you are investigating.”

“We’re investigating the murder of Mr. John Douglas of Birlstone Manor.”

“Yes, but don’t trouble about the mysterious bicyclist. It won’t help you.”

“Then what do you suggest?”

“I’ll tell you exactly what to do, if you will do it.”

“I’ve always found there was reason behind your ways.”

“I’ll do what you advise.”
“And you, Mr. White Mason?”
The country detective looked helplessly from one to the other. Holmes and his methods were new to him. “If it’s good enough for the inspector, it’s good enough for me,” said he.

“Capital!” said Holmes. “I recommend a nice, cheerful country walk for both of you. The views from Birlstone Ridge over the Weald are remarkable. Lunch could be had at some hostelry, though I can’t recommend one. In the evening, tired but happy—”

“Man, this is getting beyond a joke!” cried MacDonald, rising angrily.

“Spend the day as you like,” said Holmes, patting him on the shoulder. “Do what you please, but meet me here before dusk—without fail, Mr. Mac.”

“That sounds more like sanity.”

“All of it was excellent advice; but I don’t insist upon it, so long as you are here when I need you. Now, before we part, I wish you to write a note to Mr. Barker.”

“Well?”

“I’ll dictate it. Ready? ‘DEAR SIR.—It has struck me that it is our duty to drain the moat, in the hope that we may find something which may bear upon our investigation. I have made arrangements, and the workmen will commence early tomorrow morning to divert the stream—’”

“It’s impossible,” said the inspector. “I’ve made inquiries.”

“Tut, tut! Kindly do what I ask.”

“Well, go on.”

“‘—so I thought it best to explain beforehand.’ Sign that, and send it by hand about four o’clock. We’ll meet again here then. Until then, we may each do as we like; this inquiry has come to a definite pause.”

Evening was drawing in when we reassembled. Holmes was serious, I was curious, and the detectives were critical and annoyed. “Gentlemen,” said Holmes gravely, “I’m asking you to test everything with me, and you will judge for yourselves whether my observations justify my conclusions. It’s a chill evening, and I don’t know how long our expedition may last, so put on your warmest coats. It is most essential that we should be in our place before dark, so let us start at once.”

We passed along the outer bounds of the Manor House park until we reached a gap in the fence. We slipped through and, in the gathering gloom, followed Holmes to a shrubbery opposite the main door and drawbridge. The latter had not been raised. Holmes crouched behind the laurels, and we followed suit.

“What are we to do now?” asked MacDonald gruffly.

“Possess our souls in patience and make as little noise as possible,” Holmes answered.

“What are we here for? You might treat us with more frankness.”

Holmes laughed. “Watson insists that I am the dramatist in real life,” said he. “Some touch of the artist wells up within me and calls insistently for a well-staged performance. Our profession would be a drab one indeed if we did not sometimes set about glorifying our results. The blunt accusation, the brutal tap on the shoulder—what artistic room is there for such a denouement as that? But the quick inference, the subtle trap, the clever forecast of coming events, the triumphant vindication of bold theories—are these not the pride and the justification of our life’s work? At the highest point the audience is thrilled by the glamour of the situation and the anticipation of the hunt. Then, if I had been as definite as a timetable, where would have been that thrill? At present I ask only for a little patience, and all will be clear to you.”

“I hope the pride and justification come before we freeze,” said the London detective, with comic resignation. We all had reason to echo the sentiment, for our vigil was long and bitter. Slowly the shadows deepened over the old house. A cold, damp reek from the moat chilled us to the bone. There was a single lamp over the gateway and a steady light in the study. Everywhere else was dark and still.

“How long is this to last?” asked the inspector. “What are we watching for?”

“I have no more idea than you how long it will last,” Holmes answered. “If criminals would only arrange their movements beforehand, like railway trains, it would certainly be more convenient. As to what we are— Well, that’s what we are watching for!”

As he spoke, the study light was obscured by someone passing in front of it. The laurels in which we lay were directly opposite the window, not more than a hundred feet away. The window was thrown open, and we saw the dark outline of a man’s head and shoulders looking out. For some minutes, he peered out stealthily, like one who makes sure that he is unobserved. Then he leaned forward, and we heard the soft lapping of the water. He seemed to be stirring the moat with something in his hand. Suddenly, he hauled something in, like a fisherman landing a fish—a large, round object obscured the light as it was dragged through the window.

“Now!” cried Holmes. “Now!”

We were on our feet, following him with stiffened limbs, as he ran across the bridge and rang violently at the bell. There was the rasp of bolts, and the amazed Ames stood in the entrance. Holmes brushed him aside and rushed into the room we had been watching. The oil lamp upon the table gave the glow we had seen. It was now in the hand of Cecil Barker, who held it up towards us as we entered. Its light shone upon his strong, resolute face and his menacing eyes.

“What’s the meaning of all this?” he cried. “What are you after?”

Holmes cast a swift glance round, and then pounced upon a sodden bundle tied with cord under the writing-table. “This is what we’re after, Mr.

Barker—this bundle, weighted with a dumbbell, which you have just raised from the bottom of the moat.”

Barker stared at Holmes in amazement. “How on earth did you know about it?” he asked. “I only put it there.”

“You put it there! You!”

“Perhaps I should have said ‘replaced it there,’” Holmes replied. “You will remember, Inspector MacDonald, that I was struck by the absence of a dumbbell. I drew attention to it, but with everything else going on, you had no time to consider it. When there is water near at hand and a weight is missing, it is natural to think that something may have been sunk. It was worth testing, so with Ames’s help, who let me into the room, and Dr. Watson’s umbrella, I was able to fish out and examine this bundle last night.

“It was important to prove who had placed it there. We did so by announcing that the moat would be drained tomorrow, which was bound to prompt whoever had hidden the bundle to remove it under cover of darkness. We have four witnesses who saw who took that opportunity, so, Mr. Barker, I think it is your turn to speak.”

Holmes laid the dripping bundle on the table beside the lamp and undid the cord. He drew out a dumbbell, tossing it down beside its fellow in the corner. Then he pulled out a pair of boots.

“American, as you perceive,” he remarked, pointing to the toes.

Next he laid a long sheathed knife upon the table. Finally he unwrapped the clothes: underclothing, socks, a grey tweed suit, and a short yellow overcoat.

“The clothes are commonplace,” Holmes remarked, “save for the overcoat, which has some suggestive features.” He held it up to the light. “Here, the inner pocket runs down into the lining, giving ample room for a sawn-off fowling-piece. The tailor’s tab is marked ‘Neal, Outfitter, Vermissa, U.S.A.’ I spent an instructive afternoon in the rector’s library and learned that Vermissa is a flourishing township in a well-known coal and iron valley in the United States. I remember, Mr. Barker, that you connected the coal districts with Mr. Douglas’s first wife. It is not too much to infer that the ‘V.V.’ upon the card beside the body may stand for Vermissa Valley, or that this valley, which appears to send out emissaries of murder, may be the Valley of Fear of which we have heard. So much is tolerably clear. And now, Mr. Barker, I seem to be standing in the way of your explanation.”

Cecil Barker’s face was a study during Holmes’s exposition. Anger, amazement, consternation, and indecision swept over it. At last he took refuge in sarcasm.

“You seem to know a good deal, Mr. Holmes. Perhaps you had better tell us some more,” he sneered.

“I have no doubt that I could, Mr. Barker, but it would come with better grace from you.”

“Oh, you think so, do you? Well, all I can say is that if there is any secret here, it is not mine to give away.”

“If that is your position, Mr. Barker,” said the inspector quietly, “we shall keep our eye on you until we have a warrant.”

“You can do what you like,” Barker replied defiantly.

The proceedings seemed to have reached a deadlock, for Barker’s expression showed that he would not be forced into speech against his own will.

The deadlock was broken by a woman’s voice. Mrs. Douglas had been listening at the half-open door, and now entered the room.

“You’ve done enough, Cecil,” she said. “Whatever comes, you’ve done enough.”

“Enough and more,” said Holmes gravely. “I have every sympathy with you, madam, and would urge you to trust our jurisdiction and make a full confidence to the police. I may have been at fault in not following up the suggestion which you gave to Dr. Watson, but I had reason to think that you were directly concerned. I am now assured that you are not. Even so, much remains unexplained, and I would advise that Mr. Douglas should tell us his story.”

Mrs. Douglas gave a sharp gasp at Holmes’s words. We echoed her surprise, for a man seemed to detach himself from the wall and advance from the shadow of the corner. Mrs. Douglas turned and threw her arms about him on the instant. Barker seized his outstretched hand.

“It is best this way, Jack,” his wife repeated. “I am sure it is.”

“Indeed, Mr. Douglas,” said Holmes, “I am sure that you will find it so.”

The man stood blinking at us, adjusting himself to the light. His face was a remarkable one: bold grey eyes, a strong clipped moustache, a square chin, and a humorous mouth. He looked round at us all, and then, to my amazement, handed me a bundle of papers.

“I’ve heard of you,” said he, in a voice that was neither English nor American, but was mellow and pleasing. “You are the historian of this little bunch. Well, Dr. Watson, you never had such a story as this, and I’ll bet on that. Tell it in your own way, but there are the facts, and you can take your pick of them. I’ve been shut up for two days, and have put in the daylight hours setting it down in black and white. You are welcome to it, for there’s the story of the Valley of Fear.”

“That is the past, Mr. Douglas,” said Holmes quietly. “We want to hear your story of the present.”

“You shall have it, sir,” Douglas replied. “May I smoke as I talk? Thank you, Mr. Holmes.

“You are a smoker yourself, I understand, and you know what it is to sit for two days with tobacco in your pocket and yet to be afraid that the smell may give you away.” He leaned against the mantelpiece and lit the cigar which Holmes had handed him. “I’ve heard of you, Mr. Holmes. Never thought that I should meet you. But before you have finished with that,” he nodded at my papers, “you’ll say that I have brought you something fresh.”

Inspector MacDonald stared at the newcomer in amazement. “This beats me!” he exclaimed. “If you are Mr. John Douglas of Birlstone Manor, whose death have we been investigating, and where have you come from? You seemed to come out of the floor like a jack-in-the-box.”

“Ah, Mr. Mac,” said Holmes, shaking a reproving finger, “you did not read that excellent local account of King Charles’s concealment. People did not hide in those days without good hiding-places, and a place that has once served may serve again. I was convinced that we should find Mr. Douglas here.”

“And how long have you been playing this game upon us, Mr. Holmes?” the inspector asked angrily. “How long have you let us search when you knew it was all no use?”

“Not for an instant, my dear Mr. Mac. It was only last night that I formed my views of the case. Since they could not be proved until this evening, I invited you and your colleague to take a holiday. What more could I do? When I found the suit of clothes in the moat, it became clear that the body we had found was not Mr. John Douglas, but the bicyclist from Tunbridge Wells. No other conclusion was possible. Therefore, I had to determine where Mr. John Douglas could be, and the probability was that, with the help of his wife and friend, he was hiding in some house fit for a fugitive, waiting for a quieter time to make his escape.”

“Well, you got it right enough,” said Douglas approvingly. “I thought I’d dodge your British law; I wasn’t sure how I stood under it, and I saw my chance to throw these hounds off my track once and for all. From first to last, I’ve done nothing to be ashamed of, and nothing I wouldn’t do again; but you’ll judge that for yourselves when I tell you my story. Never mind warning me, Inspector: I’m ready to stand by the truth.

“I’m not going to begin at the beginning. That’s all there,” he indicated my bundle of papers, “and a mighty queer yarn you’ll find it. It all comes down to this: some men have good reason to hate me, and would give their last dollar to know they had got me. As long as I’m alive and they are alive, there is no safety for me. They hunted me from Chicago to California, then chased me out of America; but when I married and settled here, I thought my last years would be peaceful.

“I never explained to my wife how matters stood. Why drag her into it? She’d never have had a quiet moment again, always imagining trouble. I think she knew something, as I may have let fall a word here or there; but until yesterday, after you gentlemen had seen her, she never knew the truth. She told you all she knew, and so did Barker here; for on the night this happened, there was little time for explanations. She knows everything now, and I should have been wiser to tell her sooner. But it was a hard question, dear,” he took her hand for an instant, “and I acted for the best.

“Well, gentlemen, on the day before these events, I was in Tunbridge Wells when I caught sight of a man in the street. It was only a glimpse, but I have a quick eye for these things, and I never doubted who it was. He was the worst enemy I had—one who had been after me like a hungry wolf for years. I knew trouble was coming, so I came home and prepared. I guessed I’d fight my way through it all right on my own; my luck was proverbial in the States around '76. I never doubted it would still be with me.

“I was on my guard all the next day and never went out into the park. It’s just as well, or he’d have had the drop on me with that buckshot gun before I could draw on him. After the bridge was up—my mind always rested easier when that bridge was up in the evenings—I put it out of my head. I never dreamed he would get into the house and wait for me. But when I made my round in my dressing gown, as was my habit, I sensed danger the instant I entered the study. I guess when a man has faced dangers—and I’ve faced more than most—there’s a kind of sixth sense that waves the red flag. I saw the signal clearly enough, though I couldn’t tell you why. The next instant I spotted a boot under the window-curtain, and then I saw why.

“I had only the candle in my hand, but there was good light from the hall lamp through the open door. I put down the candle and snatched up a hammer I had left on the mantel. At the same instant, he sprang at me. I saw the glint of a knife, and I struck at him with the hammer. I hit him somewhere, for the knife tinkled down on the floor. He dodged round the table as quick as an eel, and a moment later he had his gun from under his coat. I heard him cock it, but I seized it before he could fire. I had it by the barrel, and we wrestled for it with all our strength for a minute or more. It was death to the man who lost his grip.

“He never lost his grip, but he had it butt downward for a moment too long. Maybe it was I who pulled the trigger. Maybe we just jolted it off between us. Anyhow, he got both barrels in the face, and there I was, staring down at what was left of Ted Baldwin. I had recognized him in town, and again when he sprang for me; but his own mother wouldn’t have recognized him as I saw him then. I’m used to rough work, but I turned sick at the sight of him.

“I was leaning on the table when Barker came hurrying down. I heard my wife coming, and I ran to the door and stopped her. It was no sight for a woman. I promised I’d come to her soon. I said a word or two to Barker—he took it all in at a glance—and we waited for the rest to come along. But there was no sign of them. Then we understood that they had heard nothing, and that all that had happened was known only to us.

“It was at that instant that the idea came to me.

I was dazzled by its brilliance. The man’s sleeve had slipped up, and there was the branded mark of the lodge upon his forearm. See here!”

The man whom we knew as Douglas pulled back his coat and cuff to show a brown triangle within a circle, just like the one on the dead man. “It was the sight of that which set me on it. I seemed to see it all clearly at a glance. His height, hair, and figure were much the same as mine. No one could swear to his face, poor devil! I brought down this suit of clothes, and in a quarter of an hour Barker and I had put my dressing gown on him, and there he lay as you found him. We tied all his things into a bundle, weighted them with the only weight I could find, and put them through the window. The card he meant to lay on my body was lying beside his own.

“My rings were put upon his finger; but when it came to the wedding-ring”—he held out his muscular hand—“you can see for yourselves that I had reached the limit. I haven’t moved it since the day I was married, and it would have taken a file to get it off. I don’t know whether I would have cared to part with it; but if I had wanted to, I couldn’t. So we just left that detail to take care of itself. On the other hand, I brought a bit of plaster down and put it where I am wearing one now. You slipped up there, Mr. Holmes, clever as you are; for if you had taken off that plaster, you would have found no cut beneath it.

“Well, that was the situation. If I could lie low for a while and then get away where I could be joined by my ‘widow,’ we might at last live in peace. These devils would give me no rest while I was above ground; but if they saw in the papers that Baldwin had got his man, my troubles would be at an end. I hadn’t much time to explain it all to Barker and my wife; but they understood enough to help me. I knew about this hiding-place, and so did Ames; but it never entered his head to connect it with the matter. I retired into it, and it was up to Barker to do the rest.

“I guess you can fill in what he did. He opened the window and made the mark on the sill to suggest how the murderer had escaped. It was a tall order, but as the bridge was up, there was no other way. Then, when everything was ready, he rang the bell for all he was worth. What happened afterwards you know. And so, gentlemen, you can do what you please; but I’ve told you the truth and the whole truth, so help me God! What I ask you now is, how do I stand by the English law?”

There was a silence, broken at last by Sherlock Holmes. “English law is generally just. You will receive no more than you deserve, Mr. Douglas. But I must ask—how did this man know you lived here, how to enter your house, or where to hide to ambush you?”

“I know nothing of this.”

Holmes’s face was pale and grave. “The story is not over yet, I fear,” he said. “You may face greater dangers than the English law, or even your enemies from America. I foresee trouble ahead, Mr. Douglas. Take my advice and remain vigilant.”

Now, dear readers, I ask you to journey with me away from the Sussex Manor House of Birlstone, and from the year in which our eventful inquiry ended with the strange tale of the man known as John Douglas. Let us travel back twenty years and thousands of miles westward, so that I may lay before you a singular and terrible narrative—so singular and so terrible that you may find it hard to believe, and yet it happened exactly as I shall tell it.

Do not imagine that I break off one story before another is finished. As you read on, you will see that this is not so. When I have set out those distant events, and you have solved this mystery of the past, we shall meet again in those rooms in Baker Street, where this, like many another remarkable happening, will find its end.

Part II

Chapter 1

The Man

It was the fourth of February, 1875. The winter had been harsh, and snow lay deep in the gorges of the Gilmerton Mountains. Even so, steam ploughs kept the railroad open, and the evening train connecting the coal-mining and iron-working settlements groaned its way slowly up the steep gradients from Stagville on the plain to Vermissa, the central township at the head of Vermissa Valley. From there the track descended to Bartons Crossing, Helmdale, and the agricultural county of Merton. It was a single-track railroad, but at every siding—numerous as they were—long lines of trucks piled with coal and iron ore testified to the hidden wealth that had drawn a rough population and bustling life to this desolate corner of the United States.

Desolate it was indeed! Little could the first pioneer have imagined that the fairest prairies and richest water pastures were worthless beside this gloomy land of black crags and tangled forests. Above the dark, often impenetrable woods on their slopes, the high bare crowns of the mountains, white with snow and jagged rock, towered on either side, leaving a long, winding valley between. Up this valley the little train slowly crawled.

The oil lamps had just been lit in the leading passenger car, a long, bare carriage with some twenty or thirty people seated inside. Most were workmen returning from their day's labour in the lower part of the valley. At least a dozen, with their grimy faces and safety lanterns, were clearly miners. These men sat smoking in a group, talking in low voices and occasionally glancing at two men on the opposite side of the car, whose uniforms and badges marked them as policemen.

Several women of the labouring class, and one or two travellers who might have been small local storekeepers, made up the rest of the company, except for one young man sitting alone in a corner. It is with this man that we are concerned. Take a good look at him, for he is worth it.

He is a fresh-complexioned young man of medium height, not far, one would guess, from thirty. He has large, shrewd, humorous grey eyes that twinkle with inquiry as he looks around through his spectacles at the people about him. It is easy to see that he is sociable and possibly simple, eager to be friendly with all. Anyone could pick him out as gregarious and communicative, with a quick wit and a ready smile. Yet a closer study might reveal a firmness of jaw and a tightness about the lips suggesting hidden depths, and that this pleasant, brown-haired young Irishman might leave his mark, for good or ill, on any society he joined.

After making a few tentative remarks to the nearest miner and receiving only short, gruff replies, the traveller resigned himself to silence, staring moodily out of the window at the fading landscape.

It was not a cheering prospect. Through the deepening gloom, the red glow of furnaces pulsed on the hillsides. Great heaps of slag and dumps of cinders loomed on either side, with the high shafts of the collieries towering above them. Huddled groups of mean wooden houses, their windows beginning to show light, were scattered along the line, and the frequent stopping places were crowded with swarthy inhabitants.

The iron and coal valleys of the Vermissa district were no resorts for the leisured or the cultured. Everywhere were signs of the crude battle of life, of the rough work to be done, and of the rough, strong workers who did it.

The young traveller gazed out into this dismal country with a face of mingled repulsion and interest, showing that the scene was new to him. At intervals he drew from his pocket a bulky letter, to which he referred, scribbling notes in the margins. Once, from the back of his waist, he produced something unexpected in so mild-mannered a man—a navy revolver of the largest size. As he turned it to the light, the gleam on the rims of the copper shells showed that it was fully loaded. He quickly returned it to his hidden pocket, but not before it was noticed by a working man seated on the adjoining bench.

“Hullo, mate!” he said. “You look ready.”

The young man smiled, a little embarrassed.

“Yes,” he replied, “we need them sometimes where I come from.”

“And where’s that?”

“Last from Chicago.”

“A stranger here?”

“Yes.”

“You may need it here too,” said the workman.

“Really?” The young man seemed interested. “Haven’t heard anything about what’s going on around here?”

“Nothing much.”

“I thought the place was full of news. You’ll hear soon enough. What brought you here?”

“I heard there’s always work for a willing man.”

“Are you in the union?”

“Sure.”

“Then you’ll get your job, I suppose. Any friends?”

“Not yet, but I’ve a way to make them.”

“How’s that?”

“I belong to the Eminent Order of Freemen. Every town has a lodge, and where there’s a lodge, I’ll find friends.”

His companion reacted at once. He glanced around at the others in the car. The miners were still whispering. The two police officers were dozing. He moved closer to the young traveler and held out his hand.

“Put it there,” he said.

They shook hands.

“I see you’re speaking the truth,” said the workman. “But it’s as well to make sure.”

He raised his right hand to his right eyebrow. The traveler immediately raised his left hand to his left eyebrow.

“Dark nights are unpleasant,” said the workman.

“Yes, for strangers to travel,” the other replied.

“That’s good enough. I’m Brother Scanlan, Lodge 341, Vermissa Valley. Glad to see you here.”

“Thank you. I’m Brother John McMurdo, Lodge 29, Chicago. Bodymaster J. H. Scott. Lucky to meet a brother so soon.”

“Well, there are plenty of us here. You won’t find the order more flourishing anywhere in the States than here in Vermissa Valley. But we could do with some lads like you. I can’t see why a spry union man would find no work in Chicago.”

“I found plenty of work,” said McMurdo.

“Then why leave?”

McMurdo nodded toward the policemen and smiled.

“I guess those chaps would like to know,” he said.

Scanlan groaned sympathetically. “In trouble?” he whispered.

“Deep.”

“A penitentiary job?”

“And more besides.”

“Not a killing!”

“It’s too early to talk of that,” said McMurdo, surprised to have said as much as he had. “I’ve my reasons for leaving Chicago, and that’s enough for you. Who are you to ask such things?” His gray eyes flashed with sudden anger behind his glasses.

“All right, mate, no offense meant. The boys won’t think worse of you, whatever you’ve done. Where are you bound now?”

“Vermissa.”

“That’s the third stop down. Where are you staying?”

McMurdo took out an envelope and held it up to the murky oil lamp. “Here’s the address—Jacob Shafter, Sheridan Street. A boarding house recommended by someone I knew in Chicago.”

“Well, I don’t know it; but Vermissa isn’t my quarter. I live at Hobson’s Patch, and that’s where we’re stopping. But here’s some advice: if you get into trouble in Vermissa, go to the Union House and see Boss McGinty. He’s the Bodymaster of Vermissa Lodge, and nothing happens unless Black Jack McGinty wants it. So long, mate! Maybe we’ll meet in lodge one evening. But remember: if you’re in trouble, see Boss McGinty.”

Scanlan got down, leaving McMurdo to his thoughts. Night had fallen, and the flames of the furnaces roared and leaped in the darkness. Against their lurid background, dark figures bent and strained, twisting and turning with the motion of winch or windlass, to the rhythm of clank and roar. “I guess hell must look like that,” said a voice.

McMurdo turned to see one of the policemen staring out into the fiery waste. “For that matter,” said the other policeman, “hell must be just like that. If there are worse devils down there than some we know here, I’d be surprised. You’re new here, young man?”

“So what if I am?” McMurdo replied gruffly.

“Just this, mister, I’d advise you to be careful about your friends. I wouldn’t begin with Mike Scanlan or his gang.”

“What’s it to you who my friends are?” roared McMurdo, drawing every head in the carriage. “Did I ask your advice, or do you think I can’t stir without it? Speak when you’re spoken to, and you’d wait a long time if it was me!” He grinned at the patrolmen like a snarling dog.

The two policemen, heavy, good-natured men, were taken aback by his vehemence. “No offense, stranger,” said one. “It was a warning for your own good, seeing you’re new here.”

“I’m new here, but not to you and your kind!” cried McMurdo in cold fury. “You’re the same everywhere, forever giving advice when nobody asks for it.”

“Maybe we’ll see more of you soon,” said one patrolman with a grin. “You’re a real hand-picked one, if I’m any judge.”

“I thought the same,” remarked the other. “We may meet again.”

“I’m not afraid of you, don’t think it!” cried McMurdo. “My name’s Jack McMurdo—see? If you want me, find me at Jacob Shafter’s on Sheridan Street, Vermissa; I’m not hiding from you, am I? Day or night, I’m ready to face the likes of you—don’t mistake that!”

There was a murmur of sympathy and admiration from the miners at the newcomer’s fearless manner, while the two policemen shrugged and resumed their conversation. A few minutes later, the train pulled into the dimly lit station, and there was a general exodus, for Vermissa was the largest town on the line. McMurdo picked up his leather gripsack and was about to step out into the darkness when one of the miners spoke to him. “By Gar, mate! You know how to speak to the cops,” he said in awe. “It was grand to hear you. Let me carry your grip and show you the way. I pass Shafter’s on the way to my own shack.”

There was a chorus of friendly “Good-nights” from the other miners as they left the platform. Before he had even set foot there, McMurdo the turbulent had already become a character in Vermissa.

The country had been a place of terror, but the town was even more depressing. Down the long valley there was a certain gloomy grandeur in the huge fires and drifting smoke, while the strength and industry of man found fitting monuments in the hills piled beside monstrous excavations. But the town had a dead level of mean ugliness and squalor. The broad street was churned by traffic into a horrible rutted paste of muddy snow. The sidewalks were narrow and uneven. The numerous gas lamps only threw into relief a long line of wooden houses, each with an unkempt and dirty veranda facing the street.

As they approached the center of town, the scene brightened with a row of well-lit stores and a cluster of saloons and gaming houses, where the miners spent their hard-earned wages. “That’s the Union House,” said the guide, pointing to a saloon that almost rose to the dignity of a hotel. “Jack McGinty is the boss there.”

“What sort of man is he?” McMurdo asked.

“What! Have you never heard of the boss?”

“How could I have heard of him when I’m a stranger here?”

“Well, I thought his name was known clear across the country. It’s been in the papers often enough.”

“What for?”

The miner lowered his voice. “Over the affairs.”

“What affairs?”

“Good Lord, mister! You are queer, if I may say it without offense. There’s only one set of affairs you’ll hear of here, and that’s the affairs of the Scowrers.”

“Why, I seem to have read of the Scowrers in Chicago. A gang of murderers, are they not?”

“Hush, for your life!” cried the miner, stopping short in alarm and gazing in amazement at his companion. “Man, you won’t live long here if you speak like that in the open street. Many a man has had the life beaten out of him for less.”

“Well, I know nothing about them. It’s only what I have read.”

“And I’m not saying what you’ve read isn’t true.” The man looked nervously around, peering into the shadows as if he feared some lurking danger. “If killing is murder, then God knows there is murder enough and to spare. But don’t you dare breathe the name of Jack McGinty in connection with it, stranger; every whisper goes back to him, and he’s not one to let it pass. Now, that’s the house you’re after, the one set back from the street. You’ll find old Jacob Shafter, who runs it, as honest a man as lives in this township.”

“I thank you,” said McMurdo, and, shaking hands with his new acquaintance, he plodded, gripsack in hand, up the path to the house, where he gave a resounding knock.

It was opened at once by someone very different from what he had expected. It was a young and singularly beautiful woman. She was of the German type, blonde and fair-haired, with the striking contrast of beautiful dark eyes, which surveyed the stranger with surprise and a pleasing embarrassment that brought a wave of colour to her pale face. Framed in the bright light of the open doorway, it seemed to McMurdo that he had never seen a more beautiful picture, made all the more attractive by its contrast with the sordid and gloomy surroundings. A lovely violet growing upon one of those black slag-heaps of the mines would not have seemed more surprising. So entranced was he that he stood staring without a word, and it was she who broke the silence.

“I thought it was Father,” she said in a slight German accent. “Did you come to see him? He’s downtown. I expect him back any minute.”

McMurdo continued to gaze at her with open admiration until she dropped her eyes in confusion before this confident visitor.

“No, miss,” he said at last. “I’m not in any hurry to see him. But your house was recommended to me for board. I thought it might suit me—and now I know it will.”

“You are quick to make up your mind,” she said with a smile.

“Anyone but a blind man could do as much,” he replied.

She laughed at the compliment. “Come right in, sir,” she said. “I’m Miss Ettie Shafter, Mr. Shafter’s daughter. My mother is dead, and I run the house. You can sit by the stove in the front room until Father comes—Ah, here he is! Then you can settle things with him right away.”

A heavy, elderly man came plodding up the path. In a few words McMurdo explained his business. A man named Murphy had given him the address in Chicago, having had it in turn from someone else. Old Shafter was quite ready. The stranger agreed at once to every condition and seemed fairly flush with money. For seven dollars a week, paid in advance, he was to have board and lodging.

So it was that McMurdo, the self-confessed fugitive from justice, took up his abode under the roof of the Shafters, the first step in what was to lead to a long and dark series of events, ending in a far distant land.

Chapter 2

The Bodymaster

McMurdo was a man who made his mark quickly. Wherever he went, the people around him soon knew it. Within a week he had become by far the most important person at Shafter’s. There were ten or a dozen boarders there, but they were honest foremen or ordinary clerks from the stores, of a very different calibre from the young Irishman. In the evening, when they gathered together, his joke was always the quickest, his conversation the brightest, and his song the best. He was a born good companion, with a magnetism that drew good humour from everyone around him. And yet he showed again and again, as he had shown in the railway carriage, a capacity for sudden, fierce anger that compelled the respect and even the fear of those who met him. For the law, too, and all who were connected with it, he showed a bitter contempt that delighted some and alarmed others among his fellow boarders.

From the first he made it clear, by his open admiration, that the daughter of the house had won his heart from the instant he had set eyes on her beauty and her grace. He was no shy suitor. On the second day he told her that he loved her, and from then on he repeated the same story with absolute disregard for anything she might say to discourage him.

“Someone else?” he would cry. “Well, worse luck for someone else! Let him look out for himself! Am I to lose my life’s chance and all my heart’s desire for someone else? You can keep on saying no, Ettie: the day will come when you will say yes, and I’m young enough to wait.”

He was a dangerous suitor, with his smooth Irish tongue and his pretty, coaxing ways. There was about him, too, that glamour of experience and mystery which attracts a woman’s interest, and at last her love. He could talk of the sweet valleys of County Monaghan from which he came, of the lovely distant island whose low hills and green meadows seemed all the more beautiful when imagination viewed them from this place of grime and snow.

Then he was well versed in the life of the northern cities, of Detroit, and the lumber camps of Michigan, and finally of Chicago, where he had worked in a planing mill. And afterwards came the hint of romance, the feeling that strange things had happened to him in that great city, so strange and so personal that they could not be spoken of. He spoke wistfully of a sudden departure, a breaking of old ties, a flight into a strange world, ending in this dreary valley, and Ettie listened, her dark eyes gleaming with pity and sympathy—those two qualities which may turn so quickly and so naturally to love.

McMurdo had obtained a temporary job as bookkeeper, for he was a well-educated man. This kept him out most of the day, and he had not yet found an opportunity to report himself to the head of the lodge of the Eminent Order of Freemen. He was reminded of this omission, however, by a visit one evening from Mike Scanlan, the fellow member whom he had met on the train. Scanlan, the small, sharp-faced, nervous, black-eyed man, seemed glad to see him again. After a glass or two of whisky he brought up the object of his visit.

“Say, McMurdo,” said he, “I remembered your address, so I took the liberty of calling. I’m surprised you’ve not reported to the Bodymaster. Why haven’t you seen Boss McGinty yet?”

“Well, I had to find a job. I have been busy.”

“You must find time for him if you have none for anything else. Good Lord, man! you’re a fool not to have gone down to the Union House and registered your name the first morning after you came here! If you run across him—well, you mustn’t, that’s all!”

McMurdo showed mild surprise. “I’ve been a member of the lodge for over two years, Scanlan, but I never heard that duties were as pressing as all that.”

“Maybe not in Chicago.”

“Well, it’s the same society here.”

“Is it?”

Scanlan looked at him long and fixedly. There was something sinister in his eyes.

“Isn’t it?”

“You’ll tell me that in a month’s time. I hear you had a talk with the patrolmen after I left the train.”

“How did you know that?”

“Oh, it got about—things do get about, for good and for bad, in this district.”

“Well, yes. I told the hounds what I thought of them.”

“By the Lord, you’ll be a man after McGinty’s heart!”

“What, does he hate the police too?”

Scanlan burst out laughing. “You go and see him, my lad,” said he, as he took his leave. “It’s not the police but you that he’ll hate if you don’t! Now, take a friend’s advice and go at once!”

It happened that on the same evening McMurdo had another, more pressing interview that urged him in the same direction. It may have been that his attentions to Ettie had been more obvious than before, or that they had gradually forced themselves upon the slow mind of his good German host; but whatever the cause, the boarding-house keeper beckoned the young man into his private room and started on the subject without any circumlocution.

“It seems to me, mister,” said he, “that you are gettin’ set on my Ettie. Ain’t that so, or am I wrong?”

“Yes, that is so,” the young man answered.

“Vell, I vant to tell you right now that it ain’t no manner of use. There’s someone slipped in afore you.”

“She told me so.”

“Vell, you can lay she told you true. But did she tell you who it vas?”

“No, I asked her, but she wouldn’t tell.”

“I dare say not, the leetle baggage! Perhaps she did not vish to frighten you avay.”

“Frighten!” McMurdo was on fire in a moment.

“Ah, yes, my friend! You need not be ashamed to be frightened of him. It is Teddy Baldwin.”

“And who the devil is he?”

“He is a boss of Scowrers.”

“Scowrers! I’ve heard of them before. It’s Scowrers here and Scowrers there, and always in a whisper! What are you all afraid of? Who are the Scowrers?”

The boarding-house keeper instinctively lowered his voice, as everyone did who talked about that terrible society.

“The Scowrers,” said he, “are the Eminent Order of Freemen!”

The young man stared. “Why, I am a member of that order myself.”

“You! I vould never have had you in my house if I had known it—not if you vere to pay me a hundred dollars a veek.”

“What’s wrong with the order? It’s for charity and good fellowship. The rules say so.”

“Maybe in some places. Not here!”

“What is it here?”

“It’s a murder society, that’s vat it is.”

McMurdo laughed incredulously. “How can you prove that?” he asked.

“Prove it! Are there not fifty murders to prove it? Vat about Milman and Van Shorst, and the Nicholson family, and old Mr. Hyam, and little Billy James, and the others? Prove it! Is there a man or a voman in this valley that does not know it?”

“See here!” said McMurdo earnestly. “I want you to take back what you’ve said, or else make it good. One or the other you must do before I leave this room. Put yourself in my place. Here am I, a stranger in the town.

I belong to a society that I know only as an innocent one. You’ll find it throughout the States, but always as an innocent one. Now, when I am expecting to join it here, you tell me that it is the same as a murder society called the Scowrers. I think you owe me either an apology or else an explanation, Mr. Shafter.”
“I can only tell you vat the whole vorld knows, mister. The bosses of the one are the bosses of the other. If you offend the one, it is the other that vill strike you. We have proved it too often.”
“That’s just gossip—I want proof!” said McMurdo.
“If you live here long you vill get your proof. But I forget that you are yourself one of them. You vill soon be as bad as the rest. But you vill find other lodgings, mister. I cannot have you here. Is it not bad enough that one of these people comes courting my Ettie, and that I dare not turn him away, but that I should have another for my boarder? Yes, indeed, you shall not sleep here after to-night!”
McMurdo found himself under sentence of banishment both from his comfortable quarters and from the girl whom he loved. He found her alone in the sitting-room that same evening, and he poured his troubles into her ear.
“Sure, your father is after giving me notice,” he said. “It’s little I would care if it was just my room, but indeed, Ettie, though it’s only a week that I’ve known you, you are the very breath of life to me, and I can’t live without you!”
“Oh, hush, Mr. McMurdo, don’t speak so!” said the girl. “I have told you, have I not, that you are too late? There is another, and if I have not promised to marry him at once, at least I can promise no one else.”
“Suppose I had been first, Ettie, would I have had a chance?”
The girl sank her face into her hands. “I wish to heaven that you had been first!” she sobbed.
McMurdo was down on his knees before her in an instant. “For God’s sake, Ettie, let it stand at that!” he cried. “Will you ruin your life and my own for the sake of this promise? Follow your heart, acushla! ’Tis a safer guide than any promise made before you knew what it was you were saying.”
He had seized Ettie’s white hand between his own strong brown ones.
“Say that you will be mine, and we will face it out together!”
“Not here?”
“Yes, here.”
“No, no, Jack!” His arms were around her now. “It could not be here. Could you take me away?”
A struggle passed for a moment over McMurdo’s face; but it ended by setting like granite. “No, here,” he said. “I’ll hold you against the world, Ettie, right here where we are!”
“Why should we not leave together?”
“No, Ettie, I can’t leave here.”
“But why?”
“I’d never hold my head up again if I felt I had been driven out. Besides, what is there to be afraid of? Are we not free people in a free country? If you love me, and I you, who will dare to come between us?”
“You don’t know, Jack. You’ve been here too short a time. You don’t know this Baldwin. You don’t know McGinty and his Scowrers.”
“No, I don’t know them, and I don’t fear them, and I don’t believe in them!” said McMurdo. “I’ve lived among rough men, my darling, and instead of fearing them it has always ended that they have feared me—always, Ettie. It’s madness on the face of it! If these men, as your father says, have done crime after crime in the valley, and if everyone knows them by name, how is it that none are brought to justice? You answer me that, Ettie!”
“Because no witness dares appear against them. He would not live a month if he did. Also because they always have their own men to swear that the accused one was far from the scene of the crime. But surely, Jack, you must have read all this. I had understood that every paper in the United States was writing about it.”
“Well, I have read something, it is true; but I had thought it was a story. Maybe these men have some reason in what they do. Maybe they are wronged and have no other way to help themselves.”
“Oh, Jack, don’t let me hear you speak so! That is how he speaks—the other one!”
“Baldwin—he speaks like that, does he?”
“And that is why I loathe him so. Oh, Jack, now I can tell you the truth. I loathe him with all my heart; but I fear him also. I fear him for myself; but above all I fear him for father. I know that some great sorrow would come upon us if I dared to say what I really felt. That is why I have put him off with half-promises. It was in real truth our only hope. But if you would fly with me, Jack, we could take father with us and live forever far from the power of these wicked men.”
Again there was the struggle upon McMurdo’s face, and again it set like granite. “No harm shall come to you, Ettie—nor to your father either. As to wicked men, I expect you may find that I am as bad as the worst of them before we’re through.”
“No, no, Jack! I would trust you anywhere.”
McMurdo laughed bitterly. “Good Lord! how little you know of me! Your innocent soul, my darling, could not even guess what is passing in mine. But hullo, who’s the visitor?”
The door had opened suddenly, and a young fellow came swaggering in with the air of one who was master. He was a handsome, dashing young man of about the same age and build as McMurdo himself. Under his broad-brimmed black felt hat, which he had not troubled to remove, a handsome face with fierce, domineering eyes and a curved hawk-bill of a nose looked savagely at the pair who sat by the stove. Ettie had jumped to her feet full of confusion and alarm.
“I’m glad to see you, Mr. Baldwin,” said she. “You’re earlier than I had thought. Come and sit down.”
Baldwin stood with his hands on his hips, looking at McMurdo. “Who is this?” he asked curtly.
“It’s a friend of mine, Mr. Baldwin, a new boarder here. Mr. McMurdo, may I introduce you to Mr. Baldwin?”
The young men nodded in surly fashion to each other.
“Maybe Miss Ettie has told you how it is with us?” said Baldwin.
“I didn’t understand that there was any relation between you.”
“Didn’t you? Well, you can understand it now. You can take it from me that this young lady is mine, and you’ll find it a very fine evening for a walk.”
“Thank you, I am in no mood for a walk.”
“Aren’t you?” The man’s savage eyes were blazing with anger. “Maybe you are in a mood for a fight, Mr. Boarder!”
“That I am!” cried McMurdo, springing to his feet. “You never said a more welcome word.”
“For God’s sake, Jack! Oh, for God’s sake!” cried poor, distracted Ettie. “Oh, Jack, Jack, he will hurt you!”
“Oh, it’s Jack, is it?” said Baldwin with an oath. “You’ve come to that already, have you?”
“Oh, Ted, be reasonable—be kind! For my sake, Ted, if ever you loved me, be big-hearted and forgiving!”
“I think, Ettie, that if you were to leave us alone we could get this thing settled,” said McMurdo quietly. “Or maybe, Mr.

“Baldwin, come and take a walk with me. It’s a fine evening, and there’s some open ground beyond the next block.”

“I’ll get even with you without dirtying my hands,” his enemy said. “You’ll wish you’d never set foot in this house by the time I’m through with you!”

“No time like the present,” McMurdo replied.

“I’ll choose my own time, mister. Leave that to me. See here!” He rolled up his sleeve, revealing a peculiar brand on his forearm—a circle with a triangle inside. “Know what that means?”

“I neither know nor care!”

“Well, you will. You won’t live much longer, either. Maybe Miss Ettie can tell you about it. As for you, Ettie, you’ll come back to me on your knees—do you hear?—on your knees. Then I’ll decide your punishment. You’ve sowed, and by the Lord, I’ll see you reap!” He glared at them both, then turned and slammed the door behind him.

For a moment, McMurdo and the girl stood in silence. Then she threw her arms around him.

“Oh, Jack, how brave you were! But it’s no use; you must flee! Tonight, Jack—tonight! It’s your only hope. He’ll have your life. I saw it in his eyes. What chance do you have against a dozen of them, with Boss McGinty and the lodge behind them?”

McMurdo freed himself, kissed her, and gently pushed her into a chair.

“There, acushla, there! Don’t fret or fear for me. I’m a Freeman myself. I’ve told your father. Maybe I’m no better than the others, so don’t make a saint of me. Do you hate me now that I’ve told you?”

“Hate you, Jack? Never! I’ve heard there’s no harm in being a Freeman anywhere but here. Why should I think the worse of you for that? But if you’re a Freeman, Jack, why not make friends with Boss McGinty? Hurry, Jack, hurry! Get your word in first, or the hounds will be on your trail.”

“I was thinking the same,” McMurdo said. “I’ll go now and settle it. Tell your father I’ll sleep here tonight and find other quarters in the morning.”

McGinty’s saloon was crowded as usual, a favorite haunt of the town’s rougher elements. The man was popular, with a jovial manner that masked much beneath. Beyond his popularity, the fear he inspired throughout the township and down the valley filled his bar, for none could afford to neglect his goodwill.

In addition to his secretive power, he was a high public official, a municipal councillor and a commissioner of roads, elected by ruffians who expected favors. Taxes were enormous, public works neglected, accounts glossed over by bribed auditors, and decent citizens terrorized into silence.

Year by year, Boss McGinty’s diamond pins grew more obtrusive, his gold chains heavier, and his saloon expanded until it threatened to swallow up one side of Market Square.

McMurdo pushed open the saloon door and moved through a crowd in an atmosphere thick with tobacco smoke and the smell of spirits. The place was brightly lit, with gilt mirrors reflecting the garish light. Bartenders in shirt sleeves mixed drinks for loungers at the brass-trimmed counter.

At the far end, leaning on the bar with a cigar slanting from his mouth, stood a tall, powerful man—McGinty himself. A black-maned giant, bearded to the cheekbones, with raven hair falling to his collar. His complexion was swarthy, his eyes dead black, with a slight squint that gave them a sinister look.

Everything else about the man—his noble proportions, fine features, and frank bearing—matched his jovial, man-to-man manner. One might have taken him for a bluff, honest fellow. But when those dark eyes turned on a man, he felt he was facing hidden evil, backed by strength, courage, and cunning.

Having sized him up, McMurdo pushed forward with his usual audacity, through the group fawning on the powerful boss and laughing at his jokes. The young stranger’s bold grey eyes met the deadly black ones that turned on him.

“Well, young man, I don’t recognize you.”

“I’m new here, Mr. McGinty.”

“You’re not so new that you can’t give a gentleman his proper title.”

“He’s Councillor McGinty, young man,” said a voice from the group.

“I’m sorry, Councillor. I’m new to the ways here. But I was advised to see you.”

“Well, you see me. What do you think?”

“Well, it’s early days. But if your heart is as big as your body, and your soul as fine as your face, I’d ask for nothing better,” McMurdo said.

“By Gar! You’ve got an Irish tongue,” the saloon-keeper said, uncertain whether to humor him or stand on his dignity. “You approve of my appearance?”

“Sure,” McMurdo replied.

“And you were told to see me?”

“I was.”

“Who told you?”

“Brother Scanlan of Lodge 341, Vermissa. I drink your health, Councillor, and to our better acquaintance.” He raised a glass, lifting his little finger as he drank. McGinty, watching him closely, raised his eyebrows.

“Oh, that’s how it is, is it?” he said. “I’ll have to look a bit closer into this, Mister—”

“McMurdo.”

“A bit closer, Mr. McMurdo; we don’t take folk on trust here, nor believe all we’re told. Come in here a moment, behind the bar.”

In a small room lined with barrels, McGinty closed the door, seated himself on one, bit on his cigar, and surveyed McMurdo with disturbing eyes. For a couple of minutes he sat in silence. McMurdo bore the inspection cheerfully, one hand in his coat pocket, the other twisting his moustache. Suddenly, McGinty stooped and produced a wicked-looking revolver.

“See here, my joker,” he said, “if I thought you were playing any game with us, it would be short work for you.”

“This is a strange welcome,” McMurdo replied with some dignity, “for the Bodymaster of a lodge of Freemen to give a stranger brother.”

“Ay, but that’s just what you have to prove,” said McGinty. “And God help you if you fail! Where were you made?”

“Lodge 29, Chicago.”

“When?”

“June 24, 1872.”

“What Bodymaster?”

“James H. Scott.”

“Who is your district ruler?”

“Bartholomew Wilson.”

“Hum! You seem glib enough in your tests. What are you doing here?”

“Working, same as you—but a poorer job.”

“You have your answer quick enough.”

“Yes, I was always quick of speech.”

“Are you quick in action?”

“I have had that name among those who knew me best.”

“Well, we may try you sooner than you think. Have you heard anything of the lodge in these parts?”

“I’ve heard that it takes a man to be a brother.”

“True for you, Mr. McMurdo. Why did you leave Chicago?”

“I’m damned if I tell you that!”

McGinty opened his eyes. He was not used to being answered in such a fashion, and it amused him.

“Why won’t you tell me?”

“Because no brother may tell another a lie.”

“Then the truth is too bad to tell?”

“You can put it that way if you like.”

“See here, mister, you can’t expect me, as Bodymaster, to admit into the lodge a man who can’t answer for his past.”

McMurdo looked puzzled. Then he took a worn newspaper clipping from an inner pocket.

“You wouldn’t squeal on a fellow?” he said.

“I’ll wipe my hand across your face if you use such words to me!” cried McGinty hotly.

“You are right, Councillor,” McMurdo said meekly. “I should apologize. I spoke without thought. Well, I know that I am safe in your hands. Look at that clipping.”

McGinty glanced over the account of the shooting of one Jonas Pinto, in the Lake Saloon, Market Street, Chicago, in New Year week of 1874.

“Your work?” he asked, as he handed back the paper.

McMurdo nodded.

“Why did you shoot him?”

“I was helping Uncle Sam to make dollars. Maybe mine were not such good gold as his, but they looked as well and were cheaper to make. This man Pinto helped me to shove the queer—”

“To do what?”

“Well, it means to pass the dollars out into circulation. Then he said he would split. Maybe he did split. I didn’t wait to see. I just killed him and lit out for the coal country.”

“Why the coal country?”

“Because I’d read in the papers that they weren’t too particular in those parts.”

McGinty laughed.

“You were first a coiner and then a murderer, and you came to these parts because you thought you’d be welcome.”

“That’s about the size of it,” McMurdo answered.

“Well, I guess you’ll go far. Say, can you make those dollars yet?”

McMurdo took half a dozen from his pocket.

“These never passed the Philadelphia mint,” he said.

“You don’t say!” McGinty held them to the light in his enormous hand, hairy as a gorilla’s. “I can see no difference. Gar! you’ll be a mighty useful brother, I’m thinking! We can do with a bad man or two among us, Friend McMurdo; for there are times when we have to take our own part. We’d soon be against the wall if we didn’t shove back at those who were pushing us.”

“Well, I guess I’ll do my share of shoving with the rest of the boys.”

“You seem to have a good nerve. You didn’t squirm when I shoved this gun at you.”

“It was not me that was in danger.”

“Who then?”

“It was you, Councillor.” McMurdo drew a cocked pistol from the side pocket of his pea-jacket. “I was covering you all the time. I guess my shot would have been as quick as yours.”

“By Gar!” McGinty flushed an angry red and then burst into a roar of laughter. “Say, we’ve had no such holy terror come our way these many a year. I reckon the lodge will learn to be proud of you.... Well, what the hell do you want? And can’t I speak alone with a gentleman for five minutes without your butting in on us?”

The bartender stood abashed.

“I’m sorry, Councillor, but it’s Ted Baldwin. He says he must see you this very minute.”

The message was unnecessary; for the set, cruel face of the man himself was looking over the servant’s shoulder. He pushed the bartender aside and closed the door on him.

“So,” he said with a furious glance at McMurdo, “you got here first, did you? I’ve a word to say to you, Councillor, about this man.”

“Then say it here and now to my face,” cried McMurdo.

“I’ll say it in my own time, in my own way.”

“Tut! Tut!” said McGinty, getting off his barrel. “This will never do. We have a new brother here, Baldwin, and it’s not for us to greet him in such a fashion. Hold out your hand, man, and make it up!”

“Never!” cried Baldwin in a fury.

“I’ve offered to fight him if he thinks I have wronged him,” said McMurdo. “I’ll fight him with fists, or, if that won’t satisfy him, I’ll fight him any other way he chooses. Now, I’ll leave it to you, Councillor, to judge between us as a Bodymaster should.”

“What is it, then?”

“A young lady. She’s free to choose for herself.”

“Is she?” cried Baldwin.

“As between two brothers of the lodge I should say that she was,” said the Boss.

“Oh, that’s your ruling, is it?”

“Yes, it is, Ted Baldwin,” said McGinty, with a wicked stare. “Is it you who would dispute it?”

“You would throw over one that has stood by you these five years in favour of a man you never saw before in your life? You’re not Bodymaster for life, Jack McGinty, and by God! when next it comes to a vote—”

The Councillor sprang at him like a tiger. His hand closed round the other’s neck, and he hurled him back across one of the barrels. In his mad fury he would have squeezed the life out of him if McMurdo had not interfered.

“Easy, Councillor! For heaven’s sake, go easy!” he cried, as he dragged him back.

McGinty released his hold, and Baldwin, cowed and shaken, gasping for breath, and shivering in every limb, like one who has looked over the very edge of death, sat up on the barrel over which he had been hurled.

“You’ve been asking for it these many a day, Ted Baldwin—now you’ve got it!” cried McGinty, his huge chest rising and falling.

“Maybe you think that if I were voted down from Bodymaster, you would find yourself in my shoes. It’s for the lodge to say that. But so long as I am the chief, I’ll have no man raise his voice against me or my rulings.”

“I have nothing against you,” mumbled Baldwin, touching his throat.

“Well, then,” cried the other, slipping back in a moment into a bluff joviality, “we are all good friends again, and there’s an end of the matter.”

He took a bottle of champagne down from the shelf and twisted out the cork.

“See now,” he continued, as he filled three tall glasses. “Let us drink the quarrelling toast of the lodge. After that, as you know, there can be no bad blood between us. Now, then, the left hand on the apple of my throat. I say to you, Ted Baldwin, what is the offense, sir?”

“The clouds are heavy,” answered Baldwin.

“But they will forever brighten.”

“And this I swear!”

The men drank their glasses, and the same ceremony was performed between Baldwin and McMurdo.

“There!” cried McGinty, rubbing his hands. “That’s the end of the black blood. You come under lodge discipline if it goes further, and that’s a heavy hand in these parts, as Brother Baldwin knows—and as you will damn soon find out, Brother McMurdo, if you ask for trouble!”

“Faith, I’d be slow to do that,” said McMurdo. He held out his hand to Baldwin. “I’m quick to quarrel and quick to forgive. It’s my hot Irish blood, they tell me. But it’s over for me, and I bear no grudge.”

Baldwin had to take the offered hand, for the baleful eye of the terrible Boss was upon him. But his sullen face showed how little he had been moved by the other's words.

McGinty clapped them both on the shoulders.

"Tch! These girls! These girls!" he cried. "To think the same petticoats should come between two of my boys! It's the devil's own luck! Well, it's the colleen inside them that must settle the question, for it's outside the jurisdiction of a Bodymaster—and the Lord be praised for that! We have enough on our hands without the women as well. You'll have to be affiliated to Lodge 341, Brother McMurdo. We have our own ways and methods, different from Chicago. Saturday night is our meeting, and if you come then, we'll make you free forever of the Vermissa Valley."

Chapter 3

Lodge 341, Vermissa

The day after that eventful evening, McMurdo moved from Jacob Shafter’s house to the Widow MacNamara’s on the outskirts of the town. Scanlan, his acquaintance from the train, soon came to Vermissa, and the two lodged together. The Widow MacNamara, an easy-going old Irishwoman, left them to themselves, giving all the freedom that men with common secrets might need. Shafter allowed McMurdo to come for meals, and so his intimacy with Ettie remained unbroken and grew closer with time.

In his new room, McMurdo felt safe enough to bring out the coining moulds. Under promises of secrecy, several of the lodge brothers came to see them, and each left with some specimen of his handiwork in the form of counterfeit dollars or half-dollars, so cleverly done that they passed readily and without detection. His companions wondered why a man with such a gift should work at all, but he explained that to live without visible means would only invite the attention of the police.

One policeman was already on his trail, but the matter turned, oddly enough, to McMurdo’s advantage. After their first meeting, he made frequent visits to McGinty’s saloon and came to know “the boys,” the gang which gathered there. His ready tongue and fearless bearing made him popular, and the brisk way in which he handled himself in a barroom brawl won him instant respect. Another incident raised him higher still.

One busy evening, a man in the blue uniform of the mine police entered the room. This special force had been brought in by the railway and colliery owners to reinforce the civil police, who were powerless against organized crime. The room fell silent, but McGinty showed no surprise when the officer stepped in among the customers.

“A straight whisky; it’s a bitter night,” said the officer. “I don’t think we’ve met, Councillor?”

“You’re the new captain?” McGinty asked.

“That’s right. We’re counting on you, and on the other leaders, to help us keep law and order. I’m Captain Marvin.”

“We’d do better without you, Captain Marvin,” McGinty replied coldly. “We have our own township police and no need of outsiders. You’re merely a tool of the capitalists, hired to oppress your fellow-citizens.”

“Well, let’s not argue about it,” said the officer good-humouredly. “We all do our duty as we see it, even if we don’t all see it in the same light.”

He finished his drink and turned to leave, when his eye fell upon Jack McMurdo, who was scowling at him from a little distance away.

“Hullo! Hullo!” he cried. “An old acquaintance!”

McMurdo shrank back. “I’ve never been a friend to you, nor to any other cursed copper,” said he.

“An acquaintance need not be a friend,” the captain answered with a grin. “You’re Jack McMurdo of Chicago, are you not?”

McMurdo shrugged his shoulders. “I’m not denying it. Why should I be ashamed of my own name?”

“You’ve good reason to be.”

“What d’you mean by that?” growled McMurdo, with his fists clenched.

“No, Jack, bluster won’t do with me. I served in the Chicago force before I came here, and I know a crook when I see one.”

McMurdo’s face changed. “You’re Marvin of Chicago Central?”

“The same Teddy Marvin. We’ve not forgotten the shooting of Jonas Pinto.”

“I never shot him.”

“Didn’t you? Handy for you, wasn’t it? It cleared you of the charge of passing counterfeit money. But let bygones be bygones. They could make nothing of it against you, and Chicago is open to you again.”

“I’m very well where I am.”

“Well, I’ve given you a friendly tip, and you might at least thank me for it.”

“I dare say you mean well, so I thank you,” McMurdo answered grudgingly.

“It’s all quiet from me so long as you keep straight,” said the captain. “But if you get off the line, it will be another story. Good-night to you—and to you, Councillor.”

He left, having made McMurdo a hero in the eyes of the company. Rumours of McMurdo’s past in Chicago had already been floating about, but he had turned aside all questions with a smile. Now the thing was certain. The bar-room loungers crowded round him and shook him by the hand. He was accepted at last as one of themselves.

He could carry his liquor, but that night, had it not been for Scanlan’s help, he might have ended by sleeping beneath the bar.

On the following Saturday night, McMurdo was introduced to the lodge. He had expected to pass without ceremony, since he had been initiated in Chicago, but Vermissa had its own forms. The meeting was held in a large room of the Union House. There were sixty members present, though the organization was larger still, with lodges scattered over the valley and among the mountains. Crimes were often carried out by men brought in from outside the district. In all, there were five hundred members in the coal country.

In the bare room, the men sat about a long table. Another table stood to one side, laden with bottles and glasses, and drew more than one member’s eye. McGinty sat at the head, wearing a black velvet cap and a purple stole, looking like some priest of a dark ritual. Beside him were the officers of the lodge, among them the cruelly handsome Ted Baldwin. Each wore a scarf or medallion to mark his office. Most were men past their youth, but the others were young, active fellows fitted to carry out orders. Among the elder men were some whose faces mirrored the lawless souls within; but the younger looked, for the most part, strangely unlike murderers, despite the pride they took in their dreadful craft and the admiration they felt for those who could make “a clean job” of it.

To their twisted natures, it had become a spirited and chivalrous act to volunteer for service against someone who had never harmed them and whom, in many cases, they had never even seen. After committing the crime, they quarrelled over who had actually struck the fatal blow, and amused one another by describing the cries and contortions of the murdered man. At first they had shown some secrecy in their arrangements, but by the time of this narrative their proceedings were extraordinarily open. The repeated failure of the law had shown them that no one would dare testify against them, and they had an unlimited number of staunch witnesses and a well-filled treasury with which to engage the best legal talent in the state. In ten long years of outrage, there had not been a single conviction. The only danger that ever threatened the Scowrers lay in the victim himself—who, though outnumbered and taken by surprise, might, and occasionally did, leave his mark upon his assailants. McMurdo had been warned that some ordeal lay before him, but no one would tell him what it was. He was led into an outer room by two solemn brothers. Through the plank partition he could hear the murmur of many voices from the assembly within. Once or twice he caught the sound of his own name, and knew that they were discussing his candidacy. Then an inner guard entered with a green-and-gold sash across his chest.

“The Bodymaster orders that he shall be trussed, blinded, and entered,” he said.

The three of them removed his coat, turned up the sleeve of his right arm, and passed a rope above the elbows, making it fast. They then placed a thick black cap over his head and the upper part of his face, so that he could see nothing. He was led into the assembly hall.

It was pitch-dark and oppressive under his hood. He heard the rustle and murmur of the people around him, and then McGinty’s voice sounded dull and distant through the covering over his ears.

“John McMurdo,” said the voice, “are you already a member of the Ancient Order of Freemen?”

He nodded in assent.

“Is your lodge No. 29, Chicago?”

He nodded again.

“Dark nights are unpleasant,” said the voice.

“Yes, for strangers to travel,” he answered.

“The clouds are heavy.”

“Yes, a storm is approaching.”

“Are the brethren satisfied?” asked the Bodymaster.

There was a general murmur of assent.

“We know, Brother, by your sign and by your countersign that you are indeed one of us,” said McGinty. “We would have you know, however, that in this county, and in other counties of these parts, we have certain rites and duties of our own which call for good men. Are you ready to be tested?”

“I am.”

“Are you of stout heart?”

“I am.”

“Take a stride forward to prove it.”

As the words were spoken, he felt two hard points in front of his eyes, pressing upon them so that it seemed he could not move forward without danger of losing them. Nonetheless, he steeled himself and stepped resolutely out, and as he did so the pressure melted away. There was a low murmur of applause.

“He is of stout heart,” said the voice. “Can you bear pain?”

“As well as another,” he answered.

“Test him!”

It was all he could do to keep from crying out, for an agonising pain shot through his forearm. He nearly fainted at the sudden shock, but bit his lip and clenched his hands to hide his agony.

“I can take more than that,” he said.

This time there was loud applause. A finer first appearance had never been made in the lodge. Hands clapped him on the back, and the hood was pulled from his head. He stood blinking and smiling amid the congratulations of the brothers.

“One last word, Brother McMurdo,” said McGinty. “You have already sworn the oath of secrecy and fidelity, and you are aware that the punishment for any breach of it is instant and inevitable death?”

“I am,” said McMurdo.

“And you accept the rule of the Bodymaster, for the time being, under all circumstances?”

“I do.”

“Then in the name of Lodge 341, Vermissa, I welcome you to its privileges and debates. You will put the liquor on the table, Brother Scanlan, and we will drink to our worthy brother.”

McMurdo’s coat had been brought to him, but before putting it on he examined his right arm, which still smarted badly. There on the flesh of the forearm was a circle with a triangle within it, deep and red, where the branding-iron had left it. One or two of his neighbours pulled up their sleeves and showed their own lodge marks.

“We’ve all had it,” said one, “but not all so brave as you over it.”

“Tut! It was nothing,” he said, but it burned and ached all the same. When the drinks which followed the ceremony of initiation had been disposed of, the business of the lodge proceeded. McMurdo, accustomed only to the prosaic proceedings of Chicago, listened with open ears, and with more surprise than he dared show, to what followed.

“The first business on the agenda paper,” said McGinty, “is to read the following letter from Division Master Windle of Merton County Lodge 249. He says:

“‘DEAR SIR.—There is a job to be done on Andrew Rae of Rae & Sturmash, coal owners near this place. You will remember that your lodge owes us a return, having had the service of two brethren in the matter of the patrolman last fall.

“You will send two good men. They will be taken in hand by Treasurer Higgins of this lodge, whose address you know. He will show them when to act and where. Yours in freedom,

“‘J.W. WINDLE, D.M.A.O.F.’”

“Windle has never refused us when we have had occasion to ask for the loan of a man or two, and it is not for us to refuse him.” McGinty paused and looked round the room with his dull, malevolent eyes. “Who will volunteer for the job?”

Several young fellows held up their hands. The Bodymaster looked at them with an approving smile. “You’ll do, Tiger Cormac. If you handle it as well as you did the last, you won’t go wrong. And you, Wilson.”

“I’ve no pistol,” said the volunteer, a mere boy in his teens.

“It’s your first, is it not? Well, you have to be blooded some time. It will be a fine start for you. As to the pistol, you’ll find it waiting for you, or I’m mistaken. If you report yourselves on Monday, it will be time enough. You’ll get a grand welcome when you return.”

“Any reward this time?” asked Cormac, a thick-set, dark-faced, brutal-looking young man, whose ferocity had earned him the nickname of “Tiger.”

“Never mind the reward. You just do it for the honour of the thing. Maybe when it is done there will be a few odd dollars at the bottom of the box.”

“What has the man done?” asked young Wilson.

“Sure, it’s not for the likes of you to ask what the man has done. He has been judged over there. That’s no business of ours. All we have to do is carry it out for them, same as they would for us. Speaking of that, two brothers from the Merton lodge are coming over to us next week to do some business in this quarter.”

“Who are they?” asked someone.

“Faith, it is wiser not to ask. If you know nothing, you can testify to nothing, and no trouble can come of it. But they are men who will make a clean job of it.”

“And about time, too!” cried Ted Baldwin. “Folk are gettin’ out of hand in these parts. It was only last week that three of our men were turned off by Foreman Blaker. It’s been owing him a long time, and he’ll get it full and proper.”

“Get what?” McMurdo whispered to his neighbour.

“The business end of a buckshot cartridge!” the man replied, with a loud laugh. “What do you think of our ways, Brother?”

McMurdo’s criminal instincts seemed already to have caught the spirit of the vile association he had joined. “I like it well,” he said. “It’s a proper place for a lad of mettle.”

Several around him heard the words and applauded. “What’s that?” cried the black-maned Bodymaster from the end of the table.

“It’s our new brother, sir, who finds our ways to his taste.”

McMurdo rose for a moment. “I would say, Eminent Bodymaster, that if a man is needed, I would be honoured to help the lodge.”

This was met with great applause. It was as if a new sun were rising. To some of the older men, however, his progress seemed a little too rapid. “I would move,” said the secretary, Harraway, a vulture-faced old greybeard near the chairman, “that Brother McMurdo should wait until the lodge sees fit to employ him.”

“Sure, that was what I meant; I’m in your hands,” said McMurdo.

“Your time will come, Brother,” said the chairman. “We see that you are a willing man, and we’ve no doubt you’ll do good work here. There’s a small matter tonight in which you might help, if you wish.”

“I’ll wait for something worth while.”

“You can come tonight, all the same. It will help you understand what we stand for. I’ll speak of it later. Meanwhile,” he glanced at his agenda, “I have a few more points for the meeting. First, I’ll ask the treasurer about our bank balance. There is the pension for Jim Carnaway’s widow. He was struck down in lodge work, and we must see that she is not left in want.”

“Jim was shot last month when they tried to kill Chester Wilcox of Marley Creek,” McMurdo’s neighbour informed him.

“The funds are in good order,” said the treasurer, with the bankbook before him. “The firms have been generous of late. Max Linder & Co. paid five hundred to be left alone. Walker Brothers sent a hundred, but I returned it and asked for five. If I don’t hear by Wednesday, their machinery may get out of order. We had to burn their breaker last year before they became reasonable. The West Section Coaling Company has paid its annual contribution. We have enough to meet our obligations.”

“What about Archie Swindon?” asked one of the brethren.

“He sold out and left the district. The old devil left a note saying he’d rather be a free crossing-sweeper in New York than a great mine owner under blackmailers. By Gar! It’s well he left before the note reached us! I reckon he won’t show his face here again.”

An elderly, clean-shaven man with a kindly face rose from the end of the table opposite the chairman. “Mr. Treasurer,” he asked, “who bought the property of the man we drove out?”

“Yes, Brother Morris. The State & Merton County Railroad Company bought it.”

“And who bought Todman and Lee’s mines last year?”

“The same company, Brother Morris.”

“And who bought the ironworks of Manson, Shuman, Van Deher, and Atwood?”

“They were bought by the West Gilmerton General Mining Company.”

“I do not see, Brother Morris,” said the chairman, “why it matters who buys them, since they can’t take them out of the district.”

“With respect, Eminent Bodymaster, I think it does matter. This has been going on for ten years. We are driving small men out of trade. And what is the result? Great companies like the Railroad or General Iron replace them, with directors in New York or Philadelphia who do not fear our threats. We can target the local bosses, but others will simply replace them. We are making it dangerous for ourselves. The small men could not harm us. They had neither money nor power. So long as we did not squeeze them too dry, they stayed under our control. But if the big companies come to see us as a threat to their profits, they will spare no effort to hunt us down and bring us before the courts.”

A hush followed these ominous words, and every face darkened with concern.

They had been so powerful and so long unchallenged that the thought of retribution had been banished from their minds. Yet the idea sent a chill through even the most reckless. “My advice,” the speaker continued, “is that we go easier on the small men. When they’re all gone, the power of this society will be broken.”

Unwelcome truths are seldom popular. Angry cries broke out as the speaker sat down. McGinty rose with a frown. “Brother Morris,” he said, “you’re always a pessimist. So long as this lodge stands together, there is no power in the United States that can touch us. Have we not proved it in court? I expect the big companies will find it easier to pay than to fight, just like the small ones. And now, Brethren”—McGinty removed his black velvet cap and stole—“this lodge has finished its business for the evening, save for one small matter to mention before we part. It is time for fraternal refreshment and harmony.”

Strange indeed is human nature. Here were men to whom murder was familiar, who had repeatedly struck down fathers of families without personal animosity, showing no compassion for their weeping wives or helpless children, and yet the tender or pathetic in music could move them to tears. McMurdo had a fine tenor voice, and if he had not won the goodwill of the lodge before, he certainly did so after thrilling them with “I’m Sitting on the Stile, Mary,” and “On the Banks of Allan Water.”

On his first night, the new recruit became one of the most popular of the brethren, marked out for advancement and high office. Yet other qualities were needed to make a worthy Freeman, and he was given an example of them before the evening was over. The whisky bottle had gone round many times, and the men were flushed and ripe for mischief when their Bodymaster rose once more. “Boys,” he said, “there’s one man in this town who needs trimming up, and it’s for you to see that he gets it. I mean James Stanger of the Herald. You’ve seen how he’s been writing against us?”

There was a murmur of assent, with many muttered oaths. McGinty took a slip of paper from his pocket. “‘Law and Order!’ That’s his headline. ‘Reign of Terror in the Coal and Iron District. Twelve years have passed since the first assassinations proved that there was a criminal organization in our midst. These outrages have continued, until we have become the opprobrium of the civilized world. Is this why our great country welcomes the alien fleeing from European despotisms? That they should become tyrants over those who gave them shelter, and establish terrorism and lawlessness under the sacred Flag of Freedom? The men are known. The organization is public. How long are we to endure it? Can we forever live—’ I’ve read enough of this slush!” cried the chairman, tossing the paper down. “That’s what he says of us. The question I’m asking you is, what shall we say to him?”

“Kill him!” cried a dozen fierce voices.

“I protest against that,” said Brother Morris, a man with a good brow and a clean-shaven face. “I tell you, Brethren, our hand is too heavy in this valley. There will come a point when, in self-defence, every man will unite to crush us. James Stanger is an old man, respected in the township and district. His paper stands for all that is solid in the valley. If he is struck down, there will be an uproar throughout this state that will end only in our destruction.”

“And how would they bring about our destruction, Mr. Standback?” cried McGinty. “Would it be by the police? Half of them are in our pay, and the other half are afraid of us. Or by the law courts and the judge? Haven’t we tried that before, and what ever came of it?”

“There is a Judge Lynch who might try the case,” said Brother Morris. A general shout of anger greeted the suggestion. “I have but to raise my finger,” cried McGinty, “and I could put two hundred men into this town who would clear it out from end to end.” Then, suddenly raising his voice and bending his huge black brows into a terrible frown, he added: “See here, Brother Morris, I have my eye on you, and have had it on you for some time! You’ve no heart yourself, and you try to take the heart out of others. It will be an ill day for you, Brother Morris, when your own name comes onto our agenda, and I’m thinking that it’s just there that I ought to place it.”

Morris turned deathly pale, his knees seeming to give way beneath him as he fell back into his chair. He raised his glass with a trembling hand and drank before he could answer. “I apologize, Eminent Bodymaster, to you and to every brother in this lodge if I have said more than I should. I am a faithful member—you all know that—and it is my fear lest evil come to the lodge that makes me speak so anxiously. But I have greater trust in your judgment than in my own, Eminent Bodymaster, and I promise you that I will not offend again.”

The Bodymaster’s scowl relaxed as he listened to these humble words. “Very good, Brother Morris. I’d be sorry if it were needful to teach you a lesson. But as long as I am in this chair, we shall be a united lodge in word and deed. And now, boys,” he continued, looking around at the company, “I’ll say this much: if Stanger got his full deserts, there would be more trouble than we need ask for. These editors hang together, and every journal in the state would be crying out for police and troops. But I guess you can give him a pretty severe warning. Will you fix it, Brother Baldwin?”

“Sure!” said the young man eagerly.

“How many will you take?”

“Half a dozen, and two to guard the door. You’ll come, Gower, and you, Mansel, and you, Scanlan, and the two Willabys.”

“I promised the new brother he should go,” said the chairman. Ted Baldwin looked at McMurdo with eyes that showed he had neither forgotten nor forgiven. “Well, he can come if he wants,” he said in a surly voice. “That’s enough. The sooner we get to work, the better.”

The company broke up with shouts, yells, and snatches of drunken song.

The bar was still crowded with revellers, and many of the brethren remained there. The little band assigned to the task went out into the street, moving in twos and threes along the pavement to avoid attracting attention. It was a bitterly cold night, with a half-moon shining brightly in a frosty, star-spangled sky. The men stopped and gathered in a yard facing a tall building. The words “Vermissa Herald” were printed in gold lettering between the brightly lit windows. From within came the clanking of the printing press.

“Here, you,” said Baldwin to McMurdo, “stand below at the door and see that the way is kept open for us. Arthur Willaby can stay with you. You others come with me. Have no fears, boys; we have a dozen witnesses that we are in the Union Bar at this very moment.”

It was nearly midnight, and the street was deserted except for one or two revellers on their way home. The party crossed the road, and, pushing open the door of the newspaper office, Baldwin and his men rushed in and up the stairs. McMurdo and another remained below. From the room above came a shout, a cry for help, and then the sound of trampling feet and falling chairs. An instant later, a grey-haired man rushed out onto the landing. He was seized before he could get farther, and his spectacles came tinkling down to McMurdo’s feet. There was a thud and a groan. He was on his face, and half a dozen sticks clattered down upon him. He writhed, and his long, thin limbs quivered under the blows. At last the others stopped; but Baldwin, his cruel face fixed in an infernal smile, was hacking at the man’s head, which he vainly tried to defend with his arms. His white hair was smeared with blood. Baldwin was still stooping over his victim, striking a short, vicious blow whenever he saw an exposed part, when McMurdo dashed up the stairs and pushed him back.

“You’ll kill the man,” said he. “Drop it!”

Baldwin looked at him in amazement. “Curse you!” he cried. “Who are you to interfere—you that are new to the lodge? Stand back!”

He raised his stick, but McMurdo had whipped his pistol out of his pocket.

“Stand back yourself!” he cried. “I’ll blow your face in if you lay a hand on me. As for the lodge, wasn’t it the order of the Bodymaster that the man was not to be killed—and what are you doing but killing him?”

“It’s the truth he says,” remarked one of the men.

“By Gar! you’d best hurry yourselves!” cried the man below. “The windows are all lighting up, and you’ll have the whole town here inside five minutes.”

There was indeed the sound of shouting in the street, and a little group of compositors and pressmen was forming in the hall below, bracing itself for action. Leaving the limp and motionless body of the editor at the head of the stairs, the criminals rushed down and made their way swiftly along the street. Having reached the Union House, some of them mixed with the crowd in McGinty’s saloon, whispering across the bar to the Boss that the job had been well carried through. Others, and among them McMurdo, broke away into side streets, and so by devious paths to their own homes.

Chapter 4

The Valley of Fear

When McMurdo awoke the next morning, he had good reason to remember his initiation into the lodge. His head ached from drink, and his arm, where he had been branded, was hot and swollen. Since he had his own peculiar source of income, he was irregular in attending his work; so he had a late breakfast and remained at home all morning, writing a long letter to a friend. Afterwards he read the Daily Herald. In a special column inserted at the last moment, he saw: “Outrage at the Herald Office—Editor Seriously Injured.” It was a short account of the facts, with which he was more familiar than the writer could possibly have been. It ended with the statement:

The matter is now in the hands of the police, but it can hardly be hoped that their exertions will be attended by any better results than in the past. Some of the men were recognized, and there is hope that a conviction may be obtained. The source of the outrage was, it need hardly be said, that infamous society which has held this community in bondage for so long a period, and against which the Herald has taken so uncompromising a stand. Mr. Stanger’s many friends will rejoice to hear that, though he has been cruelly and brutally beaten, and though he has sustained severe injuries about the head, there is no immediate danger to his life.

Below, it was stated that a guard of police, armed with Winchester rifles, had been requisitioned for the defence of the office. McMurdo laid down the paper and was lighting his pipe with a shaky hand from the excesses of the previous evening, when there came a knock at the door, and his landlady brought him a note sent in by a boy. It was unsigned and read:

I should wish to speak to you, but would rather not do so in your house. You will find me beside the flagstaff upon Miller Hill. If you will come there now, I have something which it is important for you to hear and for me to say.

McMurdo read the note twice in great surprise; he could not imagine what it meant, or who had written it. Had it been in a feminine hand, he might have thought it the beginning of one of those adventures familiar enough in his past life. But it was the writing of a man, and a well-educated one too. At last, after some hesitation, he decided to see the matter through.

Miller Hill is an ill-kept public park in the very centre of the town. In summer it is a favourite resort of the people, but in winter it is desolate enough. From the top one has a view not only of the whole straggling, grimy town, but also of the winding valley beneath, with its scattered mines and factories blackening the snow on either side, and of the wooded, white-capped ranges flanking it. McMurdo strolled up the winding path, hedged in with evergreens, until he reached the deserted restaurant that forms the centre of summer gaiety. Beside it was a bare flagstaff, and beneath it a man, his hat drawn down and the collar of his overcoat turned up. When he turned his face, McMurdo saw that it was Brother Morris, who had incurred the anger of the Bodymaster the night before. The lodge sign was given and exchanged as they met.

“I wanted to have a word with you, Mr. McMurdo,” said the older man, speaking with a hesitation that showed he was on delicate ground. “It was kind of you to come.”

“Why did you not put your name to the note?”

“One has to be cautious, mister. One never knows, in times like these, how a thing may come back on one. One never knows either whom to trust and whom not to trust.”

“Surely one may trust brothers of the lodge.”

“No, no, not always,” cried Morris with vehemence. “Whatever we say—even what we think—seems to go back to that man McGinty.”

“Look here!” said McMurdo sternly. “It was only last night, as you know well, that I swore good faith to our Bodymaster. Would you be asking me to break my oath?”

“If that is the view you take,” said Morris sadly, “I can only say that I am sorry I gave you the trouble of coming to meet me. Things have come to a bad pass when two free citizens cannot speak their thoughts to each other.”

McMurdo, who had been watching his companion very narrowly, relaxed somewhat in his manner. “Sure, I spoke for myself only,” said he. “I am a newcomer, as you know, and I am strange to it all. It is not for me to open my mouth, Mr. Morris; and if you think fit to say anything to me, I am here to hear it.”

“And to take it back to Boss McGinty!” said Morris bitterly.

“Indeed, then, you do me injustice there,” cried McMurdo. “For myself, I am loyal to the lodge, and so I tell you straight; but I would be a poor creature if I were to repeat to any other what you might say to me in confidence. It will go no further than me, though I warn you that you may get neither help nor sympathy.”

“I have given up looking for either one or the other,” said Morris. “I may be putting my very life in your hands by what I say; but, bad as you are—and it seemed to me last night that you were shaping to be as bad as the worst—still you are new to it, and your conscience cannot yet be as hardened as theirs. That was why I thought to speak with you.”

“Well, what have you to say?”

“If you give me away, may a curse be on you!”

“Sure, I said I would not.”

“I would ask you, then, when you joined the Freeman’s society in Chicago and swore vows of charity and fidelity, did it ever cross your mind that it might lead you to crime?”

“If you call it crime,” McMurdo answered.

“Call it crime!” cried Morris, his voice vibrating with passion. “You have seen little of it if you can call it anything else. Was it crime last night, when a man old enough to be your father was beaten till the blood dripped from his white hairs? Was that crime—or what else would you call it?”

“There are some who would say it was war,” said McMurdo, “a war of two classes, with all in, so that each struck as best it could.”

“Well, did you think of such a thing when you joined the Freeman’s society in Chicago?”

“No, I’m bound to say I did not.”

“Nor did I, when I joined it in Philadelphia. It was just a benefit club and a meeting-place for one’s fellows. Then I heard of this place—curse the hour that the name first fell upon my ears!—and I came to better myself. My God! To better myself! My wife and three children came with me. I started a dry-goods store on Market Square, and I prospered well. The word had gone round that I was a Freeman, and I was forced to join the local lodge, same as you did last night. I’ve the badge of shame on my forearm and something worse branded on my heart. I found that I was under the orders of a black villain and caught in a mesh of crime. What could I do?

Every word I said in the hope of making things better was taken as treason, just as it was last night. I can’t get away; everything I own is in my store. If I leave the society, I know it means murder for me, and God knows what for my wife and children. Oh, man, it’s awful—awful!” He put his hands to his face, his body shaking with sobs.

McMurdo shrugged. “You were too soft for the job,” he said. “You’re not cut out for this work.”

“I had a conscience and a religion, but they’ve made me a criminal. I was chosen for a job. If I drew back, I knew what would happen. Maybe I’m a coward. Maybe thinking of my wife and children makes me one. At any rate, I went. I suppose it will haunt me for ever.

“It was a lonely house, twenty miles from here, over the range. I was posted at the door, just as you were last night. They couldn’t trust me with the work. The others went in. When they came out, their hands were crimson to the wrists. As we turned away, a child screamed from the house behind us. It was a boy of five who had seen his father murdered. I nearly fainted with horror, yet I had to keep a bold face; I knew that if I didn’t, they’d come to my house next, and it would be my little Fred screaming for his father.

“But I was a criminal then, party to a murder, lost for ever in this world and the next. I’m a good Catholic, but the priest wouldn’t speak to me when he heard I was a Scowrer, and I am excommunicated. That’s how it stands. I see you going down the same road, and I ask you what the end will be. Are you ready to be a cold-blooded murderer, or can we stop it?”

“What would you do?” asked McMurdo abruptly. “You wouldn’t inform?”

“God forbid!” cried Morris. “The very thought would cost me my life.”

“That’s well,” said McMurdo. “I think you’re a weak man, and you make too much of it.”

“Too much! Wait till you’ve lived here longer. Look down the valley! See the smoke of a hundred chimneys hanging over it! I tell you, the cloud of murder hangs thicker and lower over the people. It’s the Valley of Fear, the Valley of Death. Terror is in their hearts from dusk to dawn. Wait, young man, and you’ll learn for yourself.”

“I’ll let you know what I think when I’ve seen more,” said McMurdo carelessly. “What’s clear is that you’re not the man for this place, and the sooner you sell out—even if you only get a dime on the dollar—the better. What you’ve said is safe with me; but, by Gar! if I thought you were an informer—”

“No, no!” cried Morris piteously.

“Well, let it rest. I’ll remember what you’ve said, and maybe I’ll come back to it. I dare say you meant well by speaking to me like this. Now I’ll be getting home.”

“One word before you go,” said Morris. “We may have been seen together. They might want to know what we were talking about.”

“Ah! That’s well thought of.”

“I offer you a clerkship in my store.”

“And I refuse it. That’s our business. Well, so long, Brother Morris, and may things go better for you.”

That afternoon, as McMurdo sat smoking, lost in thought beside the stove, the door swung open and Boss McGinty walked in. He gave the sign, then sat opposite the young man, looking at him steadily—a look that was returned just as steadily.

“I’m not much of a visitor, Brother McMurdo,” he said at last. “I daresay I’m too busy with those who visit me. But I thought I’d stretch a point and drop by to see you.”

“I’m proud to see you here, Councillor,” McMurdo answered heartily, bringing out his whisky bottle. “It’s an honour I didn’t expect.”

“How’s the arm?” asked the Boss.

McMurdo made a wry face. “Well, I’ve not forgotten it,” he said, “but it’s worth it.”

“Yes, it’s worth it,” the other replied, “to those who are loyal and help the lodge. What were you talking to Brother Morris about on Miller Hill this morning?”

The question came so suddenly that it was as well he had his answer ready. He burst into a hearty laugh.

“Morris didn’t know how I was to earn a living here. He wouldn’t understand either; he has too much conscience for the likes of me. But he’s a good-hearted old chap. He thought I was at a loose end and wanted to offer me a clerkship in a dry-goods store.”

“Oh, that was it?”

“Yes, that was it.”

“And you refused it?”

“Sure. Couldn’t I earn ten times as much in my own bedroom with four hours’ work?”

“That’s so. But I wouldn’t get about too much with Morris.”

“Why not?”

“Well, I guess because I tell you not to. That’s enough for most folk around here.”

“It may be enough for most folk, but it ain’t enough for me, Councillor,” said McMurdo boldly. “If you’re a judge of men, you’ll know that.”

The swarthy giant glared at him, his hairy hand closing round the glass as if he might hurl it at his companion’s head. Then he laughed loudly, boisterously, insincerely.

“You’re a queer card, for sure,” he said. “Well, if you want reasons, I’ll give them. Did Morris say nothing to you against the lodge?”

“No.”

“Nor against me?”

“No.”

“Well, that’s because he doesn’t trust you. But in his heart he’s not a loyal brother. We know that well. So we watch him and wait for the time to admonish him. I think that time is drawing near. There’s no room for scabby sheep in our pen. But if you keep company with a disloyal man, we might think you’re disloyal too. See?”

“There’s no chance of my keeping company with him; I dislike the man,” McMurdo answered. “As for being disloyal, if it were anyone but you, he wouldn’t use the word to me twice.”

“Well, that’s enough,” said McGinty, draining his glass. “I came down to give you a timely word, and you’ve had it.”

“I’d like to know,” said McMurdo, “how you ever came to learn that I had spoken with Morris at all?”

McGinty laughed. “It’s my business to know what goes on in this township,” he said. “I guess you’d best reckon on my hearing all that passes. Well, time’s up, and I’ll just say—”

But his leave-taking was cut short. With a sudden crash, the door flew open, and three frowning, intent faces glared in at them from under the peaks of police caps.

McMurdo sprang to his feet and half drew his revolver, but his arm stopped midway as he saw two Winchester rifles aimed at his head. A man in uniform advanced into the room, a six-shooter in hand. It was Captain Marvin, once of Chicago, now of the Mine Constabulary. He shook his head with a half-smile at McMurdo.

“I thought you’d be getting into trouble, Mr. Crooked McMurdo of Chicago,” he said. “Can’t keep out of it, can you? Take your hat and come along with us.”

“I guess you’ll pay for this, Captain Marvin,” said McGinty. “Who are you to break into a house like this and molest honest, law-abiding men?”

“You’re not involved in this, Councillor McGinty,” said the police captain. “We’re not after you, but after this man, McMurdo. It’s for you to help, not hinder us in our duty.”

“He’s a friend of mine, and I’ll answer for his conduct,” said the Boss.

“By all accounts, Mr. McGinty, you may have to answer for your own conduct one of these days,” the captain replied. “This man McMurdo was a crook before he came here, and he’s a crook still. Cover him, Patrolman, while I disarm him.”

“There’s my pistol,” said McMurdo coolly. “Maybe, Captain Marvin, if you and I were alone and face to face, you wouldn’t take me so easily.”

“Where’s your warrant?” asked McGinty. “By Gar! A man might as well live in Russia as in Vermissa while folk like you are running the police. It’s a capitalist outrage, and you’ll hear more of it, I reckon.”

“You do what you think is your duty in the best way you can, Councillor. We’ll look after ours.”

“What am I accused of?” asked McMurdo.

“Of being involved in the beating of old Editor Stanger at the Herald office. It wasn’t your fault it isn’t a murder charge.”

“Well, if that’s all you have against him,” cried McGinty with a laugh, “you can save yourself a lot of trouble by dropping it right now. This man was with me in my saloon playing poker up to midnight, and I can bring a dozen to prove it.”

“That’s your affair, and I guess you can settle it in court tomorrow. Meanwhile, come on, McMurdo, and come quietly if you don’t want a gun across your head. Stand back, Mr. McGinty; I warn you, I will stand no resistance when I am on duty!”

So determined was the captain’s manner that both McMurdo and his boss were forced to accept the situation. The latter managed to have a few whispered words with the prisoner before they parted.

“What about—” he jerked his thumb upward to signify the coining plant.

“All right,” whispered McMurdo, who had devised a safe hiding place under the floor.

“I’ll bid you goodbye,” said the Boss, shaking hands. “I’ll see Reilly the lawyer and take the defence upon myself. Take my word for it, they won’t be able to hold you.”

“I wouldn’t bet on that. Guard the prisoner, you two, and shoot him if he tries any games. I’ll search the house before I leave.”

He did so, but apparently found no trace of the concealed plant. When he came down, he and his men escorted McMurdo to headquarters. Darkness had fallen, and a keen blizzard was blowing, so the streets were nearly deserted; but a few loiterers followed the group, emboldened by the darkness, shouting imprecations at the prisoner.

“Lynch the cursed Scowrer!” they cried. “Lynch him!”

They laughed and jeered as he was hustled into the police station. After a brief, formal examination by the inspector in charge, he was placed in the common cell. There he found Baldwin and three other criminals from the night before, all arrested that afternoon and awaiting trial the next morning.

But even within this stronghold of the law, the long arm of the Freemen could reach. Late that night a jailer arrived with a bundle of straw for their bedding, from which he produced two bottles of whisky, some glasses, and a pack of cards. They spent a lively night, with no concern for the morning’s ordeal.

Nor had they any reason to worry, as the outcome would show. The magistrate could not, on the evidence, hold them for a higher court. The compositors and pressmen had to admit that the light was uncertain, that they had been disturbed, and that it was difficult for them to swear to the identity of the assailants, though they believed the accused were among them. Cross-examined by the clever attorney hired by McGinty, their evidence became vaguer still.

The injured man testified that he had been so taken by surprise by the sudden attack that he could say only that the first man who struck him had a moustache. He added that he knew them to be Scowrers, as no one else in the community could have had any enmity towards him, and he had long been threatened because of his outspoken editorials. On the other hand, it was clearly shown by the consistent evidence of six citizens, including Councillor McGinty, that the men had been at a card party at the Union House until much later than the time of the attack.

Needless to say, they were discharged, with something very like an apology from the bench for the inconvenience to which they had been put, together with an implied censure of Captain Marvin and the police for their excessive zeal.

The verdict was met with loud applause in a court where McMurdo saw many familiar faces. Brothers of the lodge smiled and waved. But others sat with compressed lips and brooding eyes as the men left the dock. One of them, a small, dark-bearded, resolute fellow, gave voice to the thoughts of himself and his comrades as the ex-prisoners passed him.

“You damned murderers!” he said. “We’ll fix you yet!”

Chapter 5

## The Darkest Hour

If anything could boost Jack McMurdo’s popularity among his peers, it was his arrest and acquittal. For a man, on the very night of joining the lodge, to find himself before the magistrate was a new record in the society’s annals. He was already known as a good companion, a cheerful reveller, and a man of high temper who would not take an insult, even from the powerful Boss himself. Moreover, he had impressed his comrades with the idea that none among them had a quicker brain for a scheme or a hand readier to carry it out. “He’ll be the boy for the clean job,” said the old hands, waiting for their chance to set him to work.

McGinty had enough instruments already, but he recognized this one as supremely able. He felt like a man holding a fierce bloodhound on a leash. There were curs for smaller tasks, but one day he would slip this creature upon its prey. Some lodge members, Ted Baldwin among them, resented the stranger’s rapid rise and hated him for it, but they kept out of his way, for he was as ready to fight as to laugh.

While he gained favour with his fellows, he lost it in another, more vital quarter. Ettie Shafter’s father refused to have anything to do with him or allow him into the house. Ettie was too deeply in love to give him up altogether, yet her good sense warned her of the consequences of marrying a man regarded as a criminal.

One morning, after a sleepless night, she decided to see him, perhaps for the last time, and make one strong effort to draw him away from the influences dragging him down. She went to his house, as he had often asked her to do, and entered the room he used as his sitting-room. He was seated at a table, with his back turned and a letter in front of him. A sudden spirit of girlish mischief came over her—she was still only nineteen. He had not heard her push open the door. She tiptoed forward and lightly laid her hand on his shoulders.

If she expected to startle him, she succeeded, but she was startled herself. With a tiger-like spring he turned on her, his right hand darting for her throat. At the same instant he crumpled the paper before him. For a moment he stood glaring. Then astonishment and joy replaced the ferocity that had convulsed his features—a ferocity that sent her shrinking back in horror, as from something that had never before entered her gentle life.

“It’s you!” he said, mopping his brow. “And to think you’d come to me, heart of my heart, and I’d want to strangle you! Come then, darling”—he held out his arms—“let me make it up to you.”

But she had not recovered from the glimpse of guilty fear she had read in his face. Her instincts told her it was not merely the fright of a startled man. Guilt—that was it—guilt and fear!

“What has come over you, Jack?” she cried. “Why were you so scared of me? Oh, Jack, if your conscience were clear, you would not have looked at me like that!”

“Sure, I was thinking of other things, and when you came tripping so lightly on those fairy feet of yours—“

“No, no, it was more than that, Jack.” A sudden suspicion seized her. “Let me see that letter you were writing.”

“Ah, Ettie, I could not do that.”

Her suspicions became certainties. “It’s to another woman,” she cried. “I know it! Why else keep it from me? Was it to your wife? How do I know you’re not married—you, a stranger, whom nobody knows?”

“I’m not married, Ettie. See now, I swear it! You’re the only woman on earth to me. By the cross of Christ, I swear it!”

He was so pale with passionate earnestness that she could not help but believe him. “Well, then,” she cried, “why won’t you show me the letter?”

“I’ll tell you, acushla,” he said. “I’m under oath not to show it, and just as I would not break my word to you, I must keep it to those who hold my promise. It’s the business of the lodge, and even from you it’s secret. And if I was scared when a hand fell on me, can’t you understand it might have been a detective’s hand?”

She felt that he was telling the truth. He gathered her into his arms and kissed away her fears and doubts.

“Sit here by me, then. It’s a queer throne for such a queen, but it’s the best your poor lover can find. He’ll do better for you one of these days, I’m thinking. Now your mind is at ease once again, is it not?”

“How can it ever be at ease, Jack, when I know you’re a criminal among criminals, when I never know whether I’ll hear that you’re in court for murder? ‘McMurdo the Scowrer,’ that’s what one of our boarders called you yesterday. It cut through my heart like a knife.”

“Sure, hard words break no bones.”

“But they were true.”

“Well, dear, it’s not as bad as you think. We’re only poor men trying in our own way to get our rights.”

Ettie threw her arms round his neck. “Give it up, Jack! For my sake, for God’s sake, give it up! It was to ask you that I came here today. Oh, Jack, see—I beg it of you on my bended knees! Kneeling here before you, I implore you to give it up!”

He raised her and soothed her, her head against his chest. “Sure, my darlin’, you don’t know what you’re asking. How could I give it up when it would mean breaking my oath and deserting my comrades? If you understood my situation, you’d never ask it of me. Besides, if I wanted to, how could I do it? You don’t think the lodge would let a man go free with all its secrets?”

“I’ve thought of that, Jack. I’ve planned it all. Father has saved some money. He’s weary of this place, where the fear of these people darkens our lives. He’s ready to go. We would flee together to Philadelphia or New York, where we would be safe from them.”

McMurdo laughed. “The lodge has a long reach. Do you think it couldn’t stretch from here to Philadelphia or New York?”

“Well, then, to the West, or to England, or to Germany, where my father came from—anywhere to escape this Valley of Fear!”

McMurdo thought of old Brother Morris. “That’s the second time I’ve heard the valley called that,” he said. “The shadow does seem to weigh heavily on some of you.”

“It darkens every moment of our lives. Do you think Ted Baldwin has ever forgiven us? If he didn’t fear you, what chance do you think we’d have? You should see the look in his dark, hungry eyes when he stares at me!”

“By Gar! I’d teach him better manners if I caught him at it! But listen, little girl. I can’t leave here. I can’t—take that from me once and for all. But if you’ll let me find my own way, I’ll try to make a way to get out honorably.”

“There’s no honor in such a matter.”

“Well, it depends on how you see it. But if you give me six months, I’ll work it out so that I can leave without being ashamed to look others in the face.”

The girl laughed with joy. “Six months!” she cried. “Is that a promise?”

“Well, it might be seven or eight. But within a year at the latest, we’ll leave the valley behind us.”

It was the most Ettie could hope for, yet it was something. There was now this distant light to brighten the gloom of the immediate future. She returned to her father’s house more light-hearted than she had been since Jack McMurdo had come into her life.

One might have thought that, as a member, all the society’s doings would be told to him; but he soon discovered that the organization was broader and more complex than the simple lodge. Even Boss McGinty was unaware of many things, for there was an official known as the County Delegate, living at Hobson’s Patch farther down the line, who held power over several lodges and exercised it in a sudden and arbitrary way. McMurdo saw him only once, a sly little grey-haired man with a slinking gait and a sidelong glance full of malice. Evans Pott was his name, and even the great Boss of Vermissa felt toward him something of the repulsion and fear that the huge Danton may have felt for the puny but dangerous Robespierre.

One day Scanlan, McMurdo’s fellow boarder, received a note from McGinty enclosing one from Evans Pott, informing him that he was sending over two good men, Lawler and Andrews, who had instructions to act in the neighbourhood, though it was best for the cause that no particulars of their object be given. Would the Bodymaster see to it that suitable arrangements be made for their lodging and comfort until the time for action arrived? McGinty added that it was impossible for anyone to remain secret at the Union House, and therefore he would appreciate it if McMurdo and Scanlan would host the strangers for a few days in their boarding house.

That evening the two men arrived, each carrying a gripsack. Lawler was an elderly man, shrewd, silent, and self-contained, clad in an old black frock coat which, with his soft felt hat and ragged, grizzled beard, gave him a general resemblance to an itinerant preacher. His companion, Andrews, was little more than a boy, frank-faced and cheerful, with the breezy manner of someone out for a holiday and determined to enjoy every minute of it. Both men were total abstainers and behaved in every way as exemplary members of the society, with the one exception that they were assassins who had often proved themselves capable instruments of this association of murder.

Lawler had already carried out fourteen commissions of the kind, and Andrews three. They were, as McMurdo found, quite ready to talk about their past deeds, which they recounted with the half-bashful pride of men who had done good and unselfish service for the community. They were reticent, however, about the job immediately at hand.

“They chose us because neither I nor the boy here drinks,” Lawler explained. “They can count on us to say no more than we should. You must not take it amiss, but it is the orders of the County Delegate that we obey.”

“Sure, we’re all in it together,” said Scanlan, McMurdo’s mate, as the four sat together at supper.

“That’s true enough, and we’ll talk till the cows come home about the killing of Charlie Williams or Simon Bird, or any other job in the past. But until the work is done, we say nothing.”

“There are half a dozen around here I’ve a word for,” said McMurdo, with an oath. “I suppose it isn’t Jack Knox of Ironhill you’re after. I’d go some way to see him get his deserts.”

“No, it’s not him yet.”

“Or Herman Strauss?”

“No, nor him either.”

“Well, if you won’t tell us, we can’t make you; but I’d be glad to know.”

Lawler smiled and shook his head. He was not to be drawn.

Despite their guests’ reticence, Scanlan and McMurdo were determined to be present at what they called “the fun.” So when McMurdo heard them creeping down the stairs early one morning, he awakened Scanlan, and they hurried into their clothes. Once dressed, they found the others had slipped out, leaving the door open behind them. It was not yet dawn, and by the light of the lamps they could see the two men some distance down the street. They followed them warily, treading noiselessly in the deep snow.

The boarding house was near the edge of the town, and soon they reached the crossroads beyond its boundary. Here three men were waiting, with whom Lawler and Andrews held a short, eager conversation. Then they all moved on together. It was clearly a notable job, requiring numbers. At this point several trails led to various mines. The strangers took the one leading to Crow Hill, a huge business in strong hands, able, thanks to its energetic and fearless New England manager, Josiah H. Dunn, to maintain some order and discipline during the long reign of terror.

Day was breaking now, and a line of workmen was slowly making its way, singly and in groups, along the blackened path. McMurdo and Scanlan strolled on with the others, keeping the men they followed in sight. A thick mist lay over them, and from its heart came the sudden scream of a steam whistle. It was the ten-minute signal before the cages descended and the day’s labour began.

When they reached the open space around the mine shaft, a hundred miners were waiting, stamping their feet and blowing on their fingers—it was bitterly cold. The strangers stood in a small group under the shadow of the engine house. Scanlan and McMurdo climbed a heap of slag, from which the whole scene lay before them. They saw the mine engineer, a great bearded Scotsman named Menzies, come out of the engine house and blow his whistle for the cages to be lowered.

At the same moment, a tall, loose-framed young man with a clean-shaven, earnest face came eagerly toward the pithead. As he advanced, his eyes fell upon the group, silent and motionless, under the engine house.

The men had pulled down their hats and turned up their collars to hide their faces. For a moment a foreboding of death laid its cold hand upon the manager’s heart. In the next instant he shook it off and turned his attention to these intrusive strangers. “Who are you?” he asked, advancing. “What are you loitering there for?”

There was no answer, but the lad Andrews stepped forward and shot him in the stomach. The hundred waiting miners stood as motionless and helpless as if paralysed. The manager clapped both hands to the wound and doubled over. Then he staggered away, but another of the assassins fired, and he went down sideways, kicking and clawing among a heap of clinkers. Menzies, the Scotsman, gave a roar of rage at the sight and rushed at the murderers with an iron spanner, but was met by two bullets in the face, which dropped him dead at their feet. There was a surge forward from some of the miners, and an inarticulate cry of pity and anger, but a couple of the strangers emptied their six-shooters over the heads of the crowd, causing them to break and scatter, some rushing wildly back to their homes in Vermissa.

When a few of the bravest rallied and returned to the mine, the murderous gang had vanished into the morning mist, without a single witness able to swear to the identity of the men who, in front of a hundred spectators, had committed this double crime.

Scanlan and McMurdo made their way back; Scanlan was somewhat subdued, for it was the first murder he had seen with his own eyes, and it seemed less amusing than he had been led to expect. The horrible screams of the dead manager’s wife pursued them as they hurried to the town. McMurdo was absorbed and silent, but he showed no sympathy for his companion’s faltering.

“Sure, it is like a war,” he repeated. “What is it but a war between us and them, and we hit back where we can best.”

There was high revel in the lodge room at the Union House that night—not only over the killing of the manager and engineer of the Crow Hill mine, which would bring that company into line with the other blackmailed and terror-stricken companies of the district, but also over a distant triumph carried out by the hands of the lodge itself.

It appeared that when the County Delegate had sent over five good men to strike a blow in Vermissa, he had demanded that in return three Vermissa men should be secretly selected and sent to kill William Hales of Stake Royal, one of the best-known and most popular mine owners in the Gilmerton district, a man believed to have no enemies; for he was in every way a model employer. He had insisted on efficiency in work and had therefore dismissed certain drunken and idle employees who were members of the all-powerful society. Coffin notices hung outside his door had not weakened his resolve, and so, in a free, civilised country, he found himself condemned to death.

The execution had now been duly carried out. Ted Baldwin, who sprawled in the seat of honour beside the Bodymaster, had been chief of the party. His flushed face and glazed, bloodshot eyes told of sleeplessness and drink. He and his two comrades had spent the night before among the mountains. They were unkempt and weather-stained. But no heroes returning from a forlorn hope could have had a warmer welcome from their comrades.

The story was told and retold amid cries of delight and shouts of laughter. They had waited for their man as he drove home at nightfall, taking their station at the top of a steep hill, where his horse must go at a walk. He was so wrapped up against the cold that he couldn’t lay his hand on his pistol. They had pulled him out and shot him repeatedly. He had screamed for mercy. The screams were repeated for the amusement of the lodge.

“Let’s hear again how he squealed,” they cried.

None of them knew the man, but there is eternal drama in a killing, and they had shown the Scowrers of Gilmerton that the Vermissa men could be relied upon.

There had been one mishap; a man and his wife had driven up while they were still emptying their revolvers into the silent body. It had been suggested that they shoot them both, but they were harmless folk not connected with the mines, so they were sternly ordered to drive on and keep silent, lest a worse thing befall them. And so the blood-mottled figure had been left as a warning to all such hard-hearted employers, and the three noble avengers hurried off into the mountains where unbroken nature comes down to the very edge of the furnaces and slag heaps. Here they were, safe and sound, their work well done, and the applause of their companions in their ears.

It had been a great day for the Scowrers. The shadow had fallen darker still over the valley. But as the wise general chooses the moment of victory to redouble his efforts, so that his foes have no time to steady themselves after disaster, so Boss McGinty, looking out upon the scene of his operations with brooding and malicious eyes, devised a new attack upon those who opposed him. That very night, as the half-drunken company broke up, he touched McMurdo on the arm and led him aside into the inner room where they had had their first interview.

“See here, my lad,” he said, “I’ve got a job that’s worthy of you at last. You’ll have the doing of it in your own hands.”

“Proud I am to hear it,” McMurdo answered.

“You can take two men with you—Manders and Reilly. They’ve been warned for service. We’ll never be right in this district until Chester Wilcox has been settled, and you’ll have the thanks of every lodge in the coalfields if you can bring him down.”

“I’ll do my best, anyhow. Who is he, and where shall I find him?”

McGinty took his half-chewed, half-smoked cigar from the corner of his mouth and sketched a rough diagram on a page torn from his notebook.

“He’s the chief foreman of the Iron Dike Company. A tough fellow, an old colour-sergeant from the war, all scars and grizzle. We’ve tried twice to get him, but with no luck. Jim Carnaway lost his life over it. Now it’s your turn. That’s the house—all alone at the Iron Dike crossroads, just as you see here on the map—not another house within earshot. It’s no use by day. He’s armed and shoots quick and straight, no questions asked. But at night—well, he’s there with his wife, three kids, and a hired hand. You can’t pick and choose. It’s all or none. If you could get a bag of blasting powder to the front door with a slow match—”

“What’s the man done?”

“Didn’t I tell you he shot Jim Carnaway?”

“Why did he shoot him?”

“What does that matter to you? Carnaway was around his house at night, and he shot him. That’s enough for me and you. You’ve got to settle it right.”

“There are the two women and the children. Do they go up too?”

“They have to—else how can we get him?”

“It seems hard on them, for they’ve done nothing.”

“What sort of fool’s talk is this? Do you back out?”

“Easy, Councillor, easy! What have I ever said or done to make you think I’d back out from an order of the Bodymaster of my own lodge? If it’s right or wrong, that’s for you to decide.”

“You’ll do it, then?”

“Of course I will.”

“When?”

“Well, give me a night or two to see the house and make my plans. Then—”

“Very good,” said McGinty, shaking his hand. “I leave it with you. It’ll be a great day when you bring us the news. It’s just the last stroke that’ll bring them to their knees.”

McMurdo thought long and deeply over the task suddenly placed in his hands. The isolated house where Chester Wilcox lived was about five miles away in an adjoining valley. That very night he set off alone to prepare. It was daylight before he returned from his reconnaissance. The next day he met his two subordinates, Manders and Reilly, reckless youngsters who were as excited as if they were off on a deer hunt. Two nights later they met outside the town, all three armed, one carrying a sack stuffed with quarry powder. It was two in the morning when they reached the lonely house. The night was windy, with clouds drifting across a three-quarter moon. Warned about bloodhounds, they moved cautiously, pistols cocked. But there was no sound except the wind, no movement but the swaying branches. McMurdo listened at the door, but all was still inside. He leaned the powder bag against it, ripped a hole with his knife, and attached the fuse. Once it was alight, they ran and were safe in a ditch before the explosion and the rumble of the collapsing building told them that their work was done. No cleaner job had ever been carried out in the society’s bloodstained annals.

But alas, that well-organized work went for nothing. Warned by the fate of others and knowing he was marked, Chester Wilcox had moved his family the day before to safer quarters under police guard. It was an empty house that had been torn down, and the old sergeant was still teaching discipline to the miners of Iron Dike.

“Leave him to me,” said McMurdo. “He’s my man, and I’ll get him if I have to wait a year.”

A vote of thanks and confidence was passed in full lodge, and for the time the matter ended. When, weeks later, it was reported that Wilcox had been shot at from ambush, it was an open secret that McMurdo was still on the job.

Such were the methods of the Society of Freemen, and such were the deeds of the Scowrers, spreading their rule of fear over the district long haunted by their presence. Why should these pages be stained by further crimes? Have I not said enough to show the men and their methods?

These deeds are recorded in history, where one may learn of the shooting of Policemen Hunt and Evans for arresting two society members—a double outrage planned at the Vermissa lodge and carried out in cold blood. There one may read of the shooting of Mrs. Larbey while nursing her husband, beaten by order of Boss McGinty. The killing of the elder Jenkins, followed by his brother, the mutilation of James Murdoch, the blowing up of the Staphouse family, and the murder of the Stendals all followed in the same terrible winter.

Darkly the shadow lay upon the Valley of Fear. Spring came with running brooks and blossoming trees. There was hope for all Nature, bound so long in an iron grip, but none for the men and women living under terror’s yoke. Never had the cloud been so dark and hopeless as in the early summer of 1875.

Chapter 6

Danger

It was the height of the reign of terror. McMurdo, already appointed Inner Deacon and likely to succeed McGinty as Bodymaster, had become essential to the councils of his comrades. Nothing was done without his help and advice. Yet the more popular he became with the Freemen, the darker were the scowls that met him in the streets of Vermissa. In spite of their fear, the citizens were beginning to band together against their oppressors. Rumours had reached the lodge of secret gatherings at the Herald office and of firearms being distributed among the law-abiding people. Yet McGinty and his men were undisturbed by such reports. They were numerous, resolute, and well armed. Their opponents were scattered and powerless. It would all end, as it had before, in aimless talk and perhaps a few futile arrests. So said McGinty, McMurdo, and all the bolder spirits.

It was a Saturday evening in May. Saturday was always lodge night, and McMurdo was leaving his house to attend when Morris, the weaker brother of the order, came to see him. His brow was creased with care, and his kindly face was drawn and haggard.

“Can I speak freely with you, Mr. McMurdo?”

“Sure.”

“I can’t forget that I spoke my heart to you once, and you kept it to yourself, even when the Boss himself asked you about it.”

“What else could I do, if you trusted me? It was not that I agreed with what you said.”

“I know that well. But you’re the one man I can speak to and be safe. I’ve a secret here”—he put his hand to his chest—“and it’s burning the life out of me. I wish it had come to anyone but me. If I tell it, it will mean murder, sure as death. If I don’t, it may bring the end of us all. God help me, but I’m near out of my wits over it!”

McMurdo looked at the man earnestly. He was trembling in every limb. He poured some whisky into a glass and handed it to him.

“That’s the medicine for the likes of you,” said he. “Now let me hear it.”

Morris drank, and a tinge of colour came into his white face.

“I can tell it to you in one sentence,” said he. “There’s a detective on our trail.”

McMurdo stared at him in astonishment.

“Why, man, you’re crazy,” said he. “Isn’t the place full of police and detectives? And what harm did they ever do us?”

“No, no, it’s no man of the district. As you say, we know them, and there’s little they can do. But you’ve heard of Pinkerton’s?”

“I’ve read of folk of that name.”

“Well, you can take it from me, you’ve no chance when they’re on your trail. It’s not some take-it-or-miss-it government concern. It’s a dead-earnest business proposition, out for results, and it sticks to its work until, by hook or by crook, it gets them. If a Pinkerton man is deep in this business, we are all destroyed.”

“We must kill him.”

“Ah, it’s the first thought that came to you! So it will be up at the lodge. Didn’t I say to you that it would end in murder?”

“Sure, what is murder? Isn’t it common enough in these parts?”

“It is, indeed; but it’s not for me to point out the man who is to be murdered. I’d never rest easy again. And yet it’s our own necks that may be at stake. In God’s name, what shall I do?” He rocked to and fro in his agony of indecision.

But his words had moved McMurdo deeply. It was easy to see that he shared the other’s opinion as to the danger, and the need to meet it. He gripped Morris’s shoulder and shook him in his earnestness.

“See here, man,” he cried, almost screeching in his excitement, “you’ll gain nothing by sitting there keening like an old wife at a wake. Let’s have the facts. Who is the fellow? Where is he? How did you hear of him? Why did you come to me?”

“I came to you because you’re the one man who would advise me. I told you that I had a store in the East before I came here. I left good friends behind me, and one of them is in the telegraph service. Here’s a letter I had from him yesterday. It’s this part at the top of the page. You can read it for yourself.”

This was what McMurdo read:

How are the Scowrers getting on in your part of the world? We read plenty about them in the papers. Between ourselves, I expect to hear news from you before long. Five big corporations and the two railroads have taken the matter up in earnest. They mean business, and you can bet they’ll succeed. They’re deeply involved. Pinkerton has taken charge under their orders, and his best man, Birdy Edwards, is at work. This has got to be stopped right now.

“Now read the postscript.”

McMurdo sat in silence for a while, the letter lying in his hands. The mist had lifted for a moment, revealing the abyss before him.

“Does any one else know of this?” he asked.

“I have not told any one else.”

“But your friend—has he any one else to whom he might write?”

“Well, he might know one or two more.”

“From the lodge?”

“Probably.”

“I was asking because he might have given a description of this fellow Birdy Edwards—then we could track him down.”

“It’s possible. But I doubt he knows him. He’s only passing on news he got through business. How would he know this Pinkerton man?”

McMurdo started violently.

“By Gar!” he cried. “I’ve got him. What a fool I was not to see it before. We’re in luck! We’ll catch him before he can do any harm. See here, Morris, will you leave this to me?”

“Sure, if you’ll take it off my hands.”

“I’ll do that. You can step back and let me handle it. Your name needn’t be mentioned. I’ll act as if the letter came to me. Will that suit you?”

“That’s exactly what I want.”

“Then leave it at that and keep quiet. I’ll go right down to the lodge, and we’ll make old man Pinkerton regret ever coming here.”

“You would not kill him?”

“The less you know, Morris, the easier your conscience and the better you’ll sleep. Don’t ask questions; let things take their course. I’ve got it now.”

Morris shook his head sadly as he left.

“I feel his blood is on my hands,” he groaned.

“Self-protection is no murder,” said McMurdo, with a grim smile. “It’s him or us. This man would destroy us all if we left him here. Brother Morris, we may have to make you Bodymaster yet; you’ve surely saved the lodge.”

Yet it was clear from his actions that he took this intrusion more seriously than his words suggested.

Whether it was his guilty conscience, the reputation of the Pinkerton organization, or his knowledge that powerful corporations were bent on clearing out the Scowrers, whatever the reason, his actions were those of a man preparing for the worst. He destroyed every incriminating paper before he left the house. Afterwards he drew a long breath of relief, feeling that he was safe. Yet the danger still weighed upon him, for on his way to the lodge he stopped at old man Shafter’s. The house was forbidden to him, but when he tapped at the window Ettie came out. The lively Irish mischief had gone from his eyes. She read danger in his earnest face. “Something has happened!” she cried. “Oh, Jack, you are in danger!”

“It’s not so bad, my sweetheart. But it may be wise for us to move before it gets worse.”

“Move?”

“I promised I’d leave some day. I think the time is coming. I had bad news to-night, and I see trouble ahead.”

“The police?”

“A Pinkerton. But you wouldn’t know what that means, acushla, or what it may mean for me. I’m in this thing up to my neck, and I may have to leave at short notice. You said you’d come with me if I went.”

“Oh, Jack, it would save you!”

“I’m honest in some things, Ettie. I wouldn’t harm a hair of your head for anything in this world, nor drag you down from the golden throne above the clouds where I see you. Do you trust me?”

She put her hand in his without a word. “Then listen, and do as I say. It’s the only way for us. Things are going to happen in this valley. I feel it. Many of us may have to fend for ourselves. I’m one of them. If I go, by day or by night, you must come with me!”

“I’d follow you, Jack.”

“No, you’ll come with me. If I can never come back, how can I leave you behind, perhaps hiding from the police, with no chance of sending a message? You must come with me. I know a good woman where I come from, and I’d leave you with her until we can marry. Will you come?”

“Yes, Jack, I’ll come.”

“God bless you for trusting me. I’d be a fiend to abuse it. Now, Ettie, it will be just a word, and when you hear it, drop everything and go to the waiting-room at the depot until I come.”

“Day or night, I’ll come at the word, Jack.”

Somewhat eased now that his preparations for escape had begun, McMurdo went on to the lodge. It had already assembled, and it was only through a complexity of signs and countersigns that he could pass the outer and inner guards. A buzz of pleasure and welcome greeted him. The long room was crowded, and through the tobacco smoke he saw the tangled black mane of the Bodymaster, the cruel features of Baldwin, the vulture face of Harraway the secretary, and a dozen more leaders. He was glad that they were all there to hear his news. “We’re glad to see you, Brother!” cried the chairman. “There’s business needing a Solomon to settle.”

“It’s Lander and Egan,” explained his neighbour as he sat down. “They both claim the head-money for shooting old man Crabbe at Stylestown. Who’s to say which fired the bullet?”

McMurdo rose and raised his hand. His expression drew the audience’s attention. A hush of expectation fell. “Eminent Bodymaster,” he said solemnly, “I claim urgency.”

“Brother McMurdo claims urgency,” said McGinty. “By lodge rules, it takes precedence. Now, Brother, we listen.”

McMurdo took the letter from his pocket. “Eminent Bodymaster and Brethren,” he said, “I bring bad news. Better it be known and discussed than that we should be taken unawares by a blow that may destroy us. Powerful organizations in this State have united against us, and a Pinkerton detective, Birdy Edwards, is in the valley gathering evidence which could hang many of us and send every man here to prison. That is the situation for which I claim urgency.”

There was silence in the room, broken only by the chairman. “What’s your evidence, Brother McMurdo?” he asked.

“It is in this letter which came to me,” said McMurdo, reading it aloud. “I can give no more details, nor can I show the letter, but there is nothing else in it which affects the lodge. I lay the case before you exactly as it reached me.”

“Mr. Chairman,” said one of the older brethren, “I’ve heard of Birdy Edwards. He’s said to be the smartest man in the Pinkerton service.”

“Does any one know him by sight?” asked McGinty.

“Yes,” said McMurdo, “I do.”

A murmur of astonishment ran round the room. “I believe we have him in our hands,” he continued, with a smile. “If we act quickly and wisely, we can stop this. With your confidence and your help, we have little to fear.”

“What have we to fear? What can he know of our affairs?”

“You might say that if every one were as staunch as you, Councillor. But this man has the capitalists’ millions behind him. Do you think there is no weaker brother among us who could be bought? He’ll get our secrets—maybe he has got them already. There’s only one sure cure.”

“That he never leaves the valley,” said Baldwin.

McMurdo nodded. “Good for you, Brother Baldwin,” he said. “You and I have had our differences, but you’ve spoken true tonight.”

“Where is he? How shall we know him?”

“Eminent Bodymaster,” said McMurdo earnestly, “this is too vital a matter to discuss in open lodge. God forbid that I should doubt any one here; but if even a word reached this man, we should lose all chance of getting him. I ask the lodge to choose a trusted committee, Mr.

“Chairman—you yourself, if I may suggest it—and Brother Baldwin here, and five more. Then I can speak freely of what I know and what I advise we should do.”

The proposal was adopted at once, and the committee was formed. Besides the chairman and Baldwin, there were the vulture-faced secretary, Harraway, Tiger Cormac, the brutal young assassin, Carter the treasurer, and the brothers Willaby, fearless and desperate men who would stop at nothing. The usual revelry of the lodge was brief and subdued, for a cloud lay upon the men’s spirits, and many there, for the first time, began to see the cloud of avenging Law drifting up into that serene sky beneath which they had lived so long. The horrors they had dealt out to others had been so much a part of their settled lives that the thought of retribution had grown distant, and now seemed all the more startling for having come so close. They broke up early and left their leaders to their council.

“Now, McMurdo!” said McGinty when they were alone. The seven men sat rigid in their seats.

“I said just now that I knew Birdy Edwards,” McMurdo explained. “I need not tell you that he is not here under that name. He’s a brave man, but not a madman. He goes under the name of Steve Wilson, and he is lodging at Hobson’s Patch.”

“How do you know this?”

“Because I got into talk with him. I thought little of it at the time, nor would I have given it a second thought but for this letter; but now I’m sure it’s the man. I met him on the cars when I went down the line on Wednesday—a hard case if ever there was one. He said he was a reporter. I believed it for the moment. He wanted to know all he could about the Scowrers and what he called ‘the outrages’ for a New York paper. He asked me every sort of question, trying to get something. You can bet I gave nothing away. ‘I’d pay for it, and pay well,’ said he, ‘if I could get some stuff that would suit my editor.’ I said what I thought would please him best, and he handed me a twenty-dollar bill for my information. ‘There’s ten times that for you,’ said he, ‘if you can find me all that I want.’”

“What did you tell him, then?”

“Any stuff I could make up.”

“How do you know he wasn’t a newspaper man?”

“I’ll tell you. He got out at Hobson’s Patch, and so did I. I happened into the telegraph bureau, and he was just leaving it.

“‘See here,’ said the operator after he’d gone out, ‘I guess we should charge double rates for this.’—‘I guess you should,’ said I. He had filled the form with stuff that might have been Chinese, for all we could make of it. ‘He sends off a sheet of this every day,’ said the clerk. ‘Yes,’ said I; ‘it’s special news for his paper, and he’s afraid the others may tap it.’ That was what the operator thought, and what I thought at the time; but I think differently now.”

“By Gar! I believe you are right,” said McGinty. “But what do you think we should do about it?”

“Why not go right down now and settle him?” someone suggested.

“Ay, the sooner the better.”

“I’d start this very minute if I knew where to find him,” said McMurdo. “He’s in Hobson’s Patch, but I don’t know the house. I’ve got a plan, though, if you’ll take my advice.”

“Well, what is it?”

“I’ll go to the Patch tomorrow morning. I’ll find him through the operator. He can locate him, I guess. Then I’ll tell him that I’m a Freeman myself. I’ll offer him all the secrets of the lodge for a price. You can bet he’ll tumble to it. I’ll tell him the papers are at my house, and that it’s as much as my life would be worth to let him come while folk are about. He’ll see that that’s plain sense. Let him come at ten o’clock at night, and he shall see everything. That will fetch him sure.”

“Well?”

“You can plan the rest for yourselves. Widow MacNamara’s is a lonely house. She’s as true as steel and as deaf as a post. There’s only Scanlan and me in the house. If I get his promise—and I’ll let you know if I do—I’d have the whole seven of you come to me by nine o’clock. We’ll get him in. If ever he gets out alive—well, he can talk of Birdy Edwards’s luck for the rest of his days!”

“There’s going to be a vacancy at Pinkerton’s, or I’m much mistaken. Leave it at that, McMurdo. At nine tomorrow we’ll be with you. Once you get the door shut behind him, you can leave the rest to us.”

Chapter 7

The Trapping of Birdy Edwards

As McMurdo had said, the house where he lived was isolated and well suited to the crime they had planned. It stood on the edge of town, set back from the road. Ordinarily, the conspirators would simply call their man out and shoot him, as they had done before. But this time, they needed to discover how much he knew, how he knew it, and what he had passed on to his employers. It was possible they were already too late, and the damage done. If so, they could at least take revenge on the man responsible. Still, they hoped that nothing of importance had yet reached the detective’s employers, reasoning that if it had, he would hardly be sending such trifling information as McMurdo claimed. They meant to learn it from his own lips. Once he was in their power, they would make him speak. It was not the first time they had dealt with an unwilling witness.

McMurdo went to Hobson’s Patch as agreed. The police seemed particularly interested in him that morning, and Captain Marvin—who claimed to know him from Chicago—actually spoke to him at the station. McMurdo turned away and refused to engage. He returned from his mission in the afternoon and found McGinty at the Union House.

“He is coming,” he said.

“Good!” said McGinty. The giant was in his shirt-sleeves, with chains and seals gleaming across his waistcoat, and a diamond twinkling through his beard. Drink and politics had made the Boss both rich and powerful. The thought of prison or the gallows, which had crossed his mind the night before, seemed all the more terrible.

“Do you reckon he knows much?” he asked anxiously.

McMurdo shook his head gloomily. “He’s been here at least six weeks. I doubt he came for the scenery. If he’s been working among us with the railroad money behind him, I’d expect he’s got results and passed them on.”

“There’s not a weak man in the lodge,” cried McGinty. “True as steel, every one of them. But there’s that skunk Morris. What about him? If anyone gives us away, it would be him. I’m tempted to send a couple of the boys to rough him up and see what they can get out of him.”

“Well, there’d be no harm in that,” McMurdo answered. “I like Morris, and I’d hate to see him hurt. He’s spoken to me about lodge matters, and though he may not see things our way, he never struck me as a squealer. But it’s not for me to stand between him and you.”

“I’ll fix the old devil!” said McGinty with an oath. “I’ve had my eye on him this past year.”

“Well, you know best about that,” McMurdo replied. “But whatever you do must wait till tomorrow; we need to lie low until the Pinkerton affair is settled. We can’t afford to stir up the police today.”

“True,” said McGinty. “And we’ll learn from Birdy Edwards himself where he got his news, even if we have to cut his heart out first. Did he suspect a trap?”

McMurdo laughed. “I played to his weakness,” he said. “If he could get on a good trail of the Scowrers, he’d follow it into hell. I took his money”—McMurdo grinned, showing a wad of dollar notes—“and I’ll get as much more when he sees all my papers.”

“What papers?”

“Well, there are no papers. But I spun a tale about constitutions, books of rules, and membership forms. He expects to get to the bottom of everything before he leaves.”

“He’s right there,” said McGinty grimly. “Didn’t he ask why you didn’t bring the papers?”

“As if I’d carry such things, with me being a suspected man and Captain Marvin speaking to me today at the depot!”

“Ay, I heard about that,” said McGinty. “I guess the heavy end of this business is on you. We could put him down an old shaft when we’re done with him, but however we do it, we can’t get around the fact that he’s living at Hobson’s Patch and you were there today.”

McMurdo shrugged. “If we handle it right, they can’t prove the killing,” he said. “No one will see him come to the house after dark, and I’ll make sure no one sees him leave. Now, Councillor, I’ll show you my plan and ask you to fit the others into it. You’ll all come in good time. He comes at ten. He’s to tap three times, and I’ll open the door for him. Then I’ll get behind him and shut it. He’s ours then.”

“That’s all easy and plain.”

“Yes, but the next step needs thinking through. He’s a tough one. He’s heavily armed. I’ve fooled him well enough, but he’s likely to be on his guard. Suppose I show him into a room with seven men when he expects to find me alone. There’ll be shooting, and someone will get hurt.”

“That’s true.”

“And the noise will bring every cop in town down on us.”

“I guess you’re right.”

“This is how I should work it. You’ll all be in the big room, like when you talked with me. I’ll open the door for him, show him into the parlour beside it, and leave him there while I get the papers. That will give me a chance to tell you how things are shaping up. Then I’ll go back to him with some fake papers. While he’s reading them, I’ll jump him and grab his pistol arm. You’ll hear me call, and you’ll rush in. The quicker, the better; he’s as strong as I am, and I may have more than I can handle. But I believe I can hold him until you come.”

“It’s a good plan,” said McGinty. “The lodge will owe you for this. I guess when I step down, I can name the man who’ll follow me.”

“Sure, Councillor, I’m just a recruit,” said McMurdo, but his face showed what he thought of the compliment.

When he returned home, he prepared for the grim evening ahead. First, he cleaned, oiled, and loaded his Smith & Wesson revolver. Then he checked the room where the detective would be trapped. It was a large room, with a long table in the centre and a big stove on one side. Windows lined the other walls, hung only with light curtains. McMurdo examined these closely. No doubt he realized that, for such a secret meeting, the room was too exposed.

Yet its distance from the road made that less of a concern. Finally, he discussed the matter with his fellow lodger. Scanlan, though a Scowrer, was a harmless man, too weak to oppose his comrades’ opinions, but secretly horrified by the violent acts he had witnessed. McMurdo told him briefly what was planned.

“And if I were you, Mike Scanlan, I’d take the night off and stay clear. There will be bloodshed here before morning.”

“Well, indeed, Mac,” Scanlan replied. “It’s not the will but the nerve I lack. When I saw Manager Dunn go down at the colliery, it was too much for me. I’m not made for it, like you or McGinty. If the lodge won’t think the worse of me, I’ll take your advice and leave you to it for the evening.”

The men arrived on time, as arranged. They looked respectable, well dressed, and clean, but anyone who knew faces would see there was little hope for Birdy Edwards in their hard mouths and remorseless eyes. There was not a man in the room whose hands had not been stained a dozen times before. They were as accustomed to murder as a butcher is to sheep. Foremost, both in appearance and guilt, was the formidable Boss.

Harraway, the secretary, was a lean, bitter man, with a long neck and nervous limbs, utterly loyal to the order’s finances, but with no sense of justice beyond them. The treasurer, Carter, was middle-aged, with a sulky expression and yellow skin. He was a capable organizer, and nearly every violent act had sprung from his plotting mind. The two Willabys were men of action, tall and determined, while their companion, Tiger Cormac, a heavy, dark youth, was feared even by his own people for his ferocity. These were the men gathered that night under McMurdo’s roof to kill the Pinkerton detective.

Their host had set whisky on the table, and they quickly fortified themselves for the task. Baldwin and Cormac were already half drunk, and the liquor had brought out their ferocity. Cormac laid his hands on the stove for a moment—it had been lit, as the nights were still cold.

“That will do,” he said with an oath.

“Ay,” said Baldwin, catching his meaning. “If we strap him to that, we’ll get the truth out of him.”

“We’ll get the truth out of him, never fear,” said McMurdo. He had nerves of steel; despite the weight of the affair upon him, he remained cool and unconcerned. The others noticed it and approved.

“You’re the one to handle him,” said the Boss approvingly. “He won’t get a warning until your hand is on his throat. It’s a pity there are no shutters to your windows.”

McMurdo went from one to the other and drew the curtains tighter. “No one can spy on us now. It’s almost time.”

“Maybe he won’t come. Maybe he’ll sense danger,” said the secretary.

“He’ll come. Don’t worry,” McMurdo replied. “He’s as eager to be here as you are to see him. Listen to that.”

They all sat like wax figures, some with their glasses poised in mid-air. Three loud knocks sounded at the door.

“Hush!” McMurdo raised his hand in warning. An excited glance went round the circle, and hands moved to their weapons.

“Not a sound, for your lives!” McMurdo whispered, leaving the room and carefully closing the door behind him.

With strained ears, they waited. They counted their comrade’s steps down the passage. Then they heard him open the outer door, exchange a few words of greeting, and became aware of a strange step within and an unfamiliar voice. An instant later, the door slammed and the key turned in the lock. Their prey was trapped. Tiger Cormac laughed horribly, and Boss McGinty clapped a hand over his mouth.

“Be quiet, you fool!” he whispered. “You’ll ruin us!”

There was a murmur of conversation from the next room. It seemed endless. Then the door opened, and McMurdo appeared, a finger on his lips. He came to the end of the table and looked around. A subtle change had come over him. His manner was that of a man with some great task before him. His face was set with granite firmness; his eyes shone with fierce excitement behind his spectacles. He had become a visible leader. They stared at him with eager interest, but he said nothing, still looking from man to man.

“Well!” cried Boss McGinty at last. “Is he here? Is Birdy Edwards here?”

“Yes,” McMurdo answered slowly. “Birdy Edwards is here. I am Birdy Edwards.”

For ten seconds after that brief speech, the room might have been empty, so profound was the silence. The hissing of a kettle on the stove rose sharp and strident. Seven white faces, all turned towards this dominating figure, were frozen with terror. Then, with a sudden shattering of glass, a bristle of rifle-barrels broke through every window, and the curtains were torn down.

At the sight, Boss McGinty roared like a wounded bear and lunged for the half-open door. A levelled revolver met him there, with the stern blue eyes of Captain Marvin, of the Mine Police, behind the sights. The Boss recoiled and fell back into his chair.

“You’re safer there, Councillor,” said the man they had known as McMurdo. “And you, Baldwin—if you don’t take your hand off your pistol, you’ll cheat the hangman yet. Put it down, or by the Lord that made me—There, that’s better. There are forty armed men around this house. Judge your chances. Take their pistols, Marvin!”

There was no possible resistance under the menace of those rifles. The men were disarmed. Sulky, sheepish, and amazed, they still sat round the table.

“I’d like to say a word before we part,” said the man who had trapped them. “I guess we may not meet again until you see me in the witness-box. I’ll give you something to think about until then. You know me now for what I am. At last, I can lay my cards on the table. I am Birdy Edwards, of Pinkerton’s. I was chosen to break up your gang. I had a hard and dangerous game to play. Not a soul—not even my nearest and dearest—knew I was playing it. Only Captain Marvin here and my employers knew.”

“But it’s over tonight, thank God, and I am the winner!”

The seven pale, rigid faces looked up at him. There was unappeasable hatred in their eyes. He read the relentless threat.

“Maybe you think the game isn’t over yet. Well, I take my chance on that. Anyhow, some of you will take no further hand, and there are sixty more besides you who will see jail tonight. I’ll tell you this: when I was put on this job, I never believed there was such a society as yours. I thought it was newspaper talk, and I’d prove it so. They told me it had to do with the Freemen, so I went to Chicago and became one. Then I was surer than ever it was just paper talk, for I found no harm in the society—only good.

“Still, I had to carry out my job, so I came to the coal valleys. When I reached this place, I learned I was wrong, and that it wasn’t a dime novel after all. So I stayed to look into it. I never killed a man in Chicago. I never minted a dollar in my life. The ones I gave you were as good as any others, but I never spent money better. I knew the way into your good graces, so I pretended the law was after me. It all worked just as I’d thought.”

“So I joined your infernal lodge and took my share in your councils. Maybe they’ll say I was as bad as you. They can say what they like, so long as I get you. But what’s the truth? The night I joined you, you beat up old man Stanger. I couldn’t warn him—there was no time; but I held your hand, Baldwin, when you would have killed him. If I ever suggested things to keep my place among you, they were things I knew I could prevent. I couldn’t save Dunn and Menzies, because I didn’t know enough; but I’ll see that their murderers are hanged. I warned Chester Wilcox, so when I blew his house in, he and his folk were in hiding. There were many crimes I couldn’t stop, but if you think back on how often your man came home by another road, or was in town when you went for him, or stayed indoors when you thought he’d come out, you’ll see my work.”

“You blasted traitor!” hissed McGinty through his teeth.

“Ay, John McGinty, call me that if it eases your pain. You and your kind have been the enemy of God and man here. It took a man to stand between you and the poor souls you held in your grip. There was only one way to do it, and I did it. You call me a traitor, but I daresay many will call me a deliverer who went down into hell to save them. I’ve had three months of it. I wouldn’t live through three such months again if they let me loose in the treasury at Washington for it. I had to stay until I had it all, every man and every secret, right here in this hand. I’d have waited longer if I hadn’t learned my secret was coming out. A letter had come into town that would have exposed it all. Then I had to act, and act quickly.

“I’ve nothing more to say to you, except that when my time comes, I’ll die easier for thinking of the work I’ve done in this valley. Now, Marvin, I’ll keep you no longer. Take them in and get it over.”

There is little more to tell. Scanlan had been given a sealed note to leave at Miss Ettie Shafter’s address, a mission he accepted with a wink and a knowing smile. In the early hours of the morning, a beautiful woman and a heavily muffled man boarded a special train sent by the railroad company, and made a swift, uninterrupted journey out of danger. It was the last time Ettie or her lover set foot in the Valley of Fear. Ten days later, they were married in Chicago, with old Jacob Shafter as a witness.

The trial of the Scowrers was held far from the place where their supporters might have overawed the law. In vain they struggled. In vain the lodge’s money—squeezed by blackmail from the countryside—was spent like water in trying to save them. That cold, clear, unimpassioned statement from one who knew every detail of their lives, their organization, and their crimes was unshaken by all the wiles of their defenders. At last, after so many years, they were broken and scattered. The cloud lifted forever from the valley.

McGinty met his fate on the scaffold, cringing and whining when the last hour came. Eight of his chief followers shared his fate. Fifty-odd received various terms of imprisonment. The work of Birdy Edwards was complete.

And yet, as he had guessed, the game was not over. There was another hand to be played, and yet another. Ted Baldwin, for one, escaped the scaffold; so did the Willabys and several other fierce spirits of the gang. For ten years they were out of the world, and then came a day when they were free once more—a day which Edwards, who knew his men, was sure would end his life of peace. They had sworn an oath on all they held holy to have his blood in vengeance for their comrades. And they strove to keep their vow!

From Chicago he was driven after two near-successful attempts which made a third seem certain. From Chicago he went, under a new name, to California, where the light went out of his life when Ettie Edwards died. Once again he was nearly killed, and once more, under the name of Douglas, he worked in a lonely canyon, where, with an English partner named Barker, he amassed a fortune. At last a warning came that the bloodhounds were on his track again, and he fled—just in time—to England. And thence came John Douglas, who married a worthy mate for the second time and lived for five years as a Sussex county gentleman, a life that ended with the strange happenings of which we have heard.

Epilogue

The police proceedings were over, and John Douglas’s case had been referred to a higher court. At the Quarter Sessions he was acquitted, having acted in self-defence.

“Get him out of England at any cost,” Holmes wrote to his wife. “There are forces here that may prove more dangerous than those he has escaped. There is no safety for your husband in England.”

Two months passed, and the case had somewhat faded from our minds. Then, one morning, an enigmatic note appeared in our letter-box.

“Dear me, Mr. Holmes. Dear me!” ran the curious message. There was neither address nor signature. I laughed at its quaintness, but Holmes was unusually serious.

“Deviltry, Watson!” he said, and sat for a long time with a clouded brow.

Late last night, Mrs. Hudson, our landlady, brought word that a gentleman wished to see Mr. Holmes, and that it was of the utmost importance. Close upon the heels of her announcement came Cecil Barker, our friend from the moated Manor House. His face was drawn and haggard. “I’ve had bad news—terrible news, Mr. Holmes,” he said. “I feared as much,” said Holmes. “You have not received a cable, then?”

“I have had a note from someone who has.”

“It’s poor Douglas. They tell me his name is Edwards, but to me he will always be Jack Douglas of Benito Canyon. I told you they started together for South Africa on the Palmyra three weeks ago.”

“Exactly.”

“The ship reached Cape Town last night. I received this cable from Mrs. Douglas this morning:

'Jack was lost overboard in a gale off St. Helena. No one knows how the accident occurred.' IVY DOUGLAS.”

“Ha! It came like that, did it?” said Holmes thoughtfully. “Well, I’ve no doubt it was very well stage-managed.”

“You mean you think there was no accident?”

“None in the world.”

“He was murdered?”

“Surely.”

“So do I. These infernal Scowrers, this cursed, vindictive nest of criminals—“

“No, no, my good sir,” said Holmes. “There is a master hand here. This is no case of sawed-off shotguns and clumsy six-shooters. You can tell an old master by the sweep of his brush. I know a Moriarty when I see one. This crime comes from London, not from America.”

“But for what motive?”

“Because it’s being done by someone who can’t afford to fail, whose whole position depends on success. A great mind and a vast organisation have been bent on the destruction of one man. It is like using a sledgehammer to crack a nut—an absurd waste of force, but the nut is crushed all the same.”

“How did the man come into it?”

“The first we heard of it came from one of his lieutenants. These Americans were shrewd. Needing to manage an English business, they called in this renowned master of crime, as any foreign criminal would. From that moment their victim was doomed. At first he used his agents to trace the man they wanted. Then he advised them how the thing should be done. Finally, when he learned of his agent’s failure, he intervened in person with a master-stroke. You heard me warn the man at Birlstone Manor House that the danger which lay before him was greater than any which had passed. Was I right?”

Barker struck his head with his clenched fist in helpless anger. “Don’t tell me we have to sit down under this. Are you saying no one can ever get even with this king-devil?”

“No, I don’t say that,” said Holmes, his eyes seeming to look far into the future. “I don’t say he can’t be beaten. But you must give me time—you must give me time!”

We all sat in silence for some minutes while those fateful eyes seemed to strain to pierce the veil.
