“There’s only one path for me—the imperial road,” said Xaltotun. “But first we have to destroy Conan. I don’t know how he managed to escape me at Belverus, because whatever happened while I was trapped in the sleep of the black lotus is hidden from me. But he’s in the south now, raising an army. It’s his final desperate move, made possible only by the hopelessness of the people who’ve suffered under Valerius. Let them rise; I hold them all in my grasp. We’ll wait until he strikes at us, and then we’ll crush him once and for all.

“After that, we’ll wipe out Poitain, Gunderland, and those foolish Bossonians. Then Ophir, Argos, Zingara, Koth—all the nations of the world will be forged into one vast empire. You’ll rule as my governors, and as my captains you’ll be greater than kings are now. I can’t be defeated, because the Heart of Ahriman is hidden where no one can ever use it against me again.”

Tarascus turned his eyes away so Xaltotun wouldn’t read his thoughts. He knew the wizard hadn’t looked inside the golden chest with its carved serpents that had seemed to sleep ever since he placed the Heart inside. Strange as it was, Xaltotun didn’t know the Heart had been stolen; the strange jewel was beyond or outside the reach of his dark awareness. His unnatural powers didn’t warn him that the chest was empty. Tarascus didn’t believe Xaltotun knew the full extent of Orastes’ revelations, since the Pythonian had spoken only of creating a new earthly empire, not of bringing back Acheron. Tarascus also didn’t believe Xaltotun was yet confident in his own power; if they needed his help to achieve their ambitions, he needed theirs just as much. Magic, after all, still depended to some degree on sword strikes and spear thrusts. The king understood the meaning in Amalric’s secret glance: let the wizard use his sorcery to help them destroy their most dangerous enemy. There would be time enough later to turn on him. There might still be a way to outsmart the dark power they had unleashed.