"Hey, d'ye hear me? I tell ye I _know what them things be--I seen 'em
one night when_.... EH-AHHHH--AH! E'YAAHHHH...."

The hideous suddenness and inhuman frightfulness of the old man's
shriek almost made me faint. His eyes, looking past me toward the
malodorous sea, were positively starting from his head; while his
face was a mask of fear worthy of Greek tragedy. His bony claw dug
monstrously into my shoulder, and he made no motion as I turned my head
to look at whatever he had glimpsed.

There was nothing that I could see. Only the incoming tide, with
perhaps one set of ripples more local than the long-flung line of
breakers. But now Zadok was shaking me, and I turned back to watch the
melting of that fear-frozen face into a chaos of twitching eyelids and
mumbling gums. Presently his voice came back--albeit as a trembling
whisper.

"_Git aout o' here!_ Git aout o' here! _They seen us_--git aout
fer your life! Dun't wait fer nothin'--_they know naow_--Run fer
it--quick--_aout o' this taown_--"

Another heavy wave dashed against the loosening masonry of the bygone
wharf, and changed the mad ancient's whisper to another inhuman and
blood-curdling scream.

"E-YAAAHHHH!...

"YHAAAAAAAA!..."

Before I could recover my scattered wits he had relaxed his clutch
on my shoulder and dashed wildly inland toward the street, reeling
northward around the ruined warehouse wall.

I glanced back at the sea, but there was nothing there. And when I
reached Water Street and looked along it toward the north there was no
remaining trace of Zadok Allen.

I can hardly describe the mood in which I was left by this harrowing
episode--an episode at once mad and pitiful, grotesque and terrifying.
The grocery boy had prepared me for it, yet the reality left me none
the less bewildered and disturbed. Puerile though the story was, old
Zadok's insane earnestness and horror had communicated to me a mounting
unrest which joined with my earlier sense of loathing for the town and
its blight of intangible shadow.

The hour had grown perilously late--my watch said 7:15, and the Arkham
bus left Town Square at eight--so I tried to give my thoughts as
neutral and practical a cast as possible, meanwhile walking rapidly
through the deserted streets of gaping roofs and leaning houses toward
the hotel where I had checked my valise and would find my bus.

Studying the grocery youth's map and seeking a route I had not
traversed before, I chose Marsh Street instead of State for my approach
to Town Square. Near the corner of Fall Street I began to see scattered
groups of furtive whisperers, and when I finally reached the Square I
saw that almost all the loiterers were congregated around the door of
the Gilman House. It seemed as if many bulging, watery, unwinking eyes
looked oddly at me as I claimed my valise in the lobby, and I hoped
that none of these unpleasant creatures would be my fellow-passengers
on the coach.

The bus, rather early, rattled in with three passengers somewhat
before eight, and an evil-looking fellow on the sidewalk muttered a
few indistinguishable words to the driver. I was, it appeared, in very
bad luck. There had been something wrong with the engine, despite the
excellent time made from Newburyport, and the bus could not complete
the journey to Arkham. No, it could not possibly be repaired that
night, nor was there any other way of getting transportation out of
Innsmouth, either to Arkham or elsewhere. Sargent was sorry, but I
would have to stop over at the Gilman. Probably the clerk would make
the price easy for me, but there was nothing else to do. Almost dazed
by this sudden obstacle, and violently dreading the fall of night in
this decaying and half-unlighted town, I left the bus and reentered
the hotel lobby; where the sullen, queer-looking night clerk told me I
could have Room 428 on next the top floor--large, but without running
water--for a dollar.

Despite what I had heard of this hotel in Newburyport, I signed the
register, paid my dollar, let the clerk take my valise, and followed
that sour, solitary attendant up three creaking flights of stairs past
dusty corridors which seemed wholly devoid of life. My room, a dismal
rear one with two windows and bare, cheap furnishings, over-looked
a dingy courtyard otherwise hemmed in by low, deserted brick blocks,
and commanded a view of decrepit westward-stretching roofs with a
marshy countryside beyond. At the end of the corridor was a bathroom--a
discouraging relique with ancient marble bowl, tin tub, faint electric
light, and musty wooden panelling around all the plumbing fixtures.

As twilight deepened I turned on the one feeble electric bulb over the
cheap, iron-framed bed, and tried as best I could to read. I felt it
advisable to keep my mind wholesomely occupied, for it would not do
to brood over the abnormalities of this ancient, blight-shadowed town
while I was still within its borders. The insane yarn I had heard from
the aged drunkard did not promise very pleasant dreams, and I felt I
must keep the image of his wild, watery eyes as far as possible from my
imagination.

Another thing that disturbed me was the absence of a bolt on the door
of my room. One had been there, as marks clearly showed, but there
were signs of recent removal. No doubt it had become out of order,
like so many other things in this decrepit edifice. In my nervousness
I looked around and discovered a bolt on the clothespress which seemed
to be of the same size, judging from the marks, as the one formerly on
the door. To gain a partial relief from the general tension I busied
myself by transferring this hardware to the vacant place with the aid
of a handy three-in-one device including a screw-driver which I kept
on my keyring. The bolt fitted perfectly, and I was somewhat relieved
when I knew that I could shoot it firmly upon retiring. There were
adequate bolts on the two lateral doors to connecting rooms, and these
I proceeded to fasten.

I did not undress, but decided to read till I was sleepy and then
lie down with only my coat, collar, and shoes off. Taking a pocket
flashlight from my valise, I placed it in my trousers, so that I
could read my watch if I woke up later in the dark. Drowsiness,
however, did not come; and when I stopped to analyze my thoughts I
found to my disquiet that I was really unconsciously listening for
something--listening for something which I dreaded but could not name.

