Zadok was showing signs of fright and exhaustion, and I let him keep
silence for a while, though glancing apprehensively at my watch. The
tide had turned and was coming in now, and the sound of the waves
seemed to arouse him.

"That awful night.... I seed 'em.... I was up in the cupalo ... hordes
of 'em ... swarms of 'em ... all over the reef an' swimmin' up the
harbor into the Manuxet.... God, what happened in the streets of
Innsmouth that night ... they rattled our door, but pa wouldn't open
... then he clumb aout the kitchen winder with his musket to find
Selectman Mowry an' see what he cud do.... Maounds o' the dead an'
the dyin' ... shots an' screams ... shaoutin' in Ol' Squar an' Taown
Squar an' New Church Green ... jail throwed open ... proclamation ...
treason ... called it the plague when folks come in an' faound haff our
people missin' ... nobody left but them as ud jine in with Obed an'
them things or else keep quiet ... never heerd o' my pa no more...."

The old man was panting, and perspiring profusely. His grip on my
shoulder tightened.

"Everything cleaned up in the mornin'--but they was _traces_.... Obed
he kinder takes charge an' says things is goin' to be changed ...
_others'll_ worship with us at meetin'-time, an' sarten haouses hez got
to entertain _guests_ ... _they_ wanted to mix like they done with the
Kanakys, an' he fer one didn't feel baound to stop 'em. Far gone, was
Obed ... jest like a crazy man on the subjeck. He says they brung us
fish an' treasure, an' shud hev what they hankered arter....

"Nothin' was to be diff'runt on the aoutside, only we was to keep shy
o' strangers ef we knowed what was good fer us. We all hed to take the
Oath o' Dagon, an' later on they was secon' an' third Oaths that some
of us took. Them as ud help special, ud git special rewards--gold an'
sech. No use balkin', fer they was millions of 'em daown thar. They'd
ruther not start risin' an' wipin' aout humankind, but ef they was gave
away an' forced to, they cud do a lot toward jest that.

"Yield up enough sacrifices an' savage knick-knacks an' harborage in
the taown when they wanted it, an' they'd let well enough alone. All in
the band of the faithful--Order o' Dagon--an' the children shud never
die, but go back to the Mother Hydra an' Father Dagon what we all come
from onct--_Iä! Iä! Cthulhu fhtagn! Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh
wgahnagl fhtagn_--"

Old Zadok began to moan now, and tears were coursing down his
channelled cheeks into the depths of his beard.

"God, what I seen senct I was fifteen year' old--_Mene, mene,
tekel, upharsin!_--the folks as was missin', an' them as kilt
theirselves--them as told things in Arkham or Ipswich or sech places
was all called crazy, like you're a-callin' me right naow--but God,
what I seen--they'd a kilt me long ago fer what I know, only I'd
took the fust an' secon' Oaths o' Dagon offen Obed, so was pertected
unlessen a jury of 'em proved I told things knowin' an' delib'rit ...
but I wudn't take the third Oath--I'd a died ruther'n take that--

"It got wuss araound Civil War time, _when children born senct
'forty-six begun to grow up_--some of 'em, that is. I was
afeard--never did no pryin' arter that awful night, an' never see one
o'--_them_--clost to in all my life. That is, never no full-blooded
one. Barnabas Marsh that runs the refin'ry naow is Obed's grandson by
his fust wife--son of Onesiphorus, his eldest son, _but his mother was
another o' them as wa'n't never seed aoutdoors_.

"Right naow Barnabas is abaout changed. Can't shet his eyes no more,
an' is all aout o' shape. They say he still wears clothes, but he'll
take to the water soon." ...

The sound of the incoming tide was now very insistent, and little by
little it seemed to change the old man's mood from maudlin tearfulness
to watchful fear. He would pause now and then to renew those nervous
glances over his shoulder or out toward the reef, and despite the wild
absurdity of his tale, I could not help beginning to share his vague
apprehensiveness. Zadok now grew shriller, and seemed to be trying to
whip up his courage with louder speech.

"Hey, yew, why dun't ye say somethin'? Haow'd ye like to be livin' in a
taown like this, with everything a-rottin' an' a-dyin', an' boarded-up
monsters crawlin' an' bleatin' an' barkin' an' hoppin' araoun' black
cellars an' attics every way ye turn? Hey? Wal, Sir, _let me tell ye
that aint the wust_!"

Zadok was really screaming now, and the mad frenzy of his voice
disturbed me more than I care to own.

"Curse ye, dun't set thar a-starin' at me with them eyes--I tell Obed
Marsh he's in hell, an' hez got to stay thar! Heh, heh ... in hell, I
says! Can't git me--I hain't done nothin' nor told nobody nothin'--

"Oh, you, young feller? Wal, even ef I hain't told nobody nothin' yet,
I'm a-goin' to naow! Yew jest set still an' listen to me, boy--this is
what I ain't never told nobody.... I says I didn't get to do no pryin'
arter that night--_but I found things aout jest the same_!

"Yew want to know what the reel horror is, hey? Wal, it's this--it
ain't what them fish devils _hez done, but what they're a-goin' to
do_! They're a-bringin' things up aout o' whar they come from into the
taown--ben doin' it fer years, an' slackenin' up lately. Them haouses
north o' the river betwixt Water an' Main Streets is full of 'em--them
devils _an' what they brung_--an' when they git ready ... I say, _when
they git ready_ ... ever hear tell of a _shoggoth_?....

