At length, feeling a fatigue which had nothing of drowsiness in it, I
bolted the newly outfitted hall door, turned off the light, and threw
myself down on the hard, uneven bed--coat, collar, shoes, and all. In
the darkness every faint noise of the night seemed magnified, and a
flood of doubly unpleasant thoughts swept over me. I was sorry I had
put out the light, yet was too tired to rise and turn it on again.
Then, after a long, dreary interval, and prefaced by a fresh creaking
of stairs and corridor, there came that soft, damnably unmistakable
sound which seemed like a malign fulfilment of all my apprehensions.
Without the least shadow of a doubt, the lock on my hall door was being
tried--cautiously, furtively, tentatively--with a key.

The change in the menace from vague premonition to immediate reality
was a profound shock, and fell upon me with the force of a genuine
blow. It never once occurred to me that the fumbling might be a mere
mistake. Malign purpose was all I could think of, and I kept deathly
quiet, awaiting the would-be intruder's next move.

After a time the cautious rattling ceased, and I heard the room to the
north entered with a pass key. Then the lock of the connecting door to
my room was softly tried. The bolt held, of course, and I heard the
floor creak as the prowler left the room. After a moment there came
another soft rattling, and I knew that the room to the south of me was
being entered. Again a furtive trying of a bolted connecting door,
and again a receding creaking. This time the creaking went along the
hall and down the stairs, so I knew that the prowler had realized the
bolted condition of my doors and was giving up his attempt for a time.

_The one thing to do was to get out of that hotel alive as quickly as I
could, and through some channel other than the front stairs and lobby!_

Rising softly and throwing my flashlight on the switch, I sought
to light the bulb over my bed in order to choose and pocket some
belongings for a swift, valiseless flight. Nothing, however, happened;
and I saw that the power had been cut off. So, filling my pockets
with the flashlight's aid, I put on my hat and tiptoed to the
windows to consider chances of descent. Despite the state's safety
regulations there was no fire escape on this side of the hotel, and
I saw that my windows commanded only a sheer three-story drop to the
cobbled courtyard. On the right and left, however, some ancient brick
business blocks abutted on the hotel; their slant roofs coming up to a
reasonable jumping distance from my fourth-story level. To reach either
of these lines of buildings I would have to be in a room two doors
from my own--in one case on the north and in the other case on the
south--and my mind instantly set to work calculating what chances I had
of making the transfer.

First, I reinforced my own outer door by pushing the bureau against
it--little by little, in order to make a minimum of sound. Then,
gathering from the grocery boy's map that the best route out of town
was southward, I glanced first at the connecting door on the south
side of the room. It was designed to open in my direction, hence I
saw--after drawing the bolt and finding other fastenings in place--it
was not a favorable one for forcing. Accordingly abandoning it as a
route, I cautiously moved the bedstead against it to hamper any attack
which might be made on it later from the next room. The door on the
north was hung to open away from me, and this--though a test proved
it to be locked or bolted from the other side--I knew must be my
route. If I could gain the roofs of the buildings in Paine Street and
descend successfully to the ground level, I might perhaps dart through
the courtyard and the adjacent or opposite buildings to Washington
or Bates--or else emerge in Paine and edge around southward into
Washington. In any case, I would aim to strike Washington somehow and
get quickly out of the Town Square region. My preference would be to
avoid Paine, since the fire station there might be open all night.

I was irresolutely speculating on when I had better attack the
northward door, and on how I could least audibly manage it, when I
noticed that the vague noises underfoot had given place to a fresh and
heavier creaking of the stairs. A wavering flicker of light showed
through my transom, and the boards of the corridor began to groan with
a ponderous load. Muffled sounds of possible vocal origin approached,
and at length a firm knock came at my outer door.

For a moment I simply held my breath and waited. Eternities
seemed to elapse, and the nauseous fishy odor of my environment
seemed to mount suddenly and spectacularly. Then the knocking was
repeated--continuously, and with growing insistence. I knew that the
time for action had come, and forthwith drew the bolt of the northward
connecting door, bracing myself for the task of battering it open. The
knocking waxed louder, and I hoped that its volume would cover the
sound of my efforts. At last beginning my attempt, I lunged again and
again at the thin panelling with my left shoulder, heedless of shock or
pain.

Finally the connecting door gave, but with such a crash that I knew
those outside must have heard. Instantly the outside knocking became
a violent battering, while keys sounded ominously in the hall doors
of the rooms on both sides of me. Rushing through the newly opened
connection, I succeeded in bolting the northerly hall door before the
lock could be turned; but even as I did so I heard the hall door of the
third room--the one from whose window I had hoped to reach the roof
below--being tried with a pass key.

For an instant I felt absolute despair, since my trapping in a chamber
with no window egress seemed complete. Then, with a dazed automatism,
I made for the next connecting door and performed the blind motion of
pushing at it in an effort to get through!

Sheer fortunate chance gave me my reprieve--for the connecting door
before me was not only unlocked but actually ajar. In a second I was
through, and had my right knee and shoulder against a hall door which
was visibly opening inward. My pressure took the opener off guard, for
the thing shut as I pushed, so that I could slip the well-conditioned
bolt as I had done with the other door. As I gained this respite I
heard the battering at the two other doors abate, while a confused
clatter came from the connecting door I had shielded with the bedstead.
Evidently the bulk of my assailants had entered the southerly room and
were massing in a lateral attack. But at the same moment a pass key
sounded in the next door to the north, and I knew that a nearer peril
was at hand.

