These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead
Cthulhu's dream-vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply
moved despite my rational beliefs. Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of
the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass
of his equally weird reading and imagining. Later, by virtue of its
sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams,
in the bas-relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his
imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one. The youth was of
a type, at once slightly affected and slightly ill-mannered, which I
could never like; but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
success his talent promises.

The matter of the cult still remained to fascinate me, and at times
I had visions of personal fame from researches into its origin and
connections. I visited New Orleans, talked with Legrasse and others
of that old-time raiding-party, saw the frightful image, and even
questioned such of the mongrel prisoners as still survived. Old Castro,
unfortunately, had been dead for some years. What I now heard so
graphically at first hand, though it was really no more than a detailed
confirmation of what my uncle had written, excited me afresh; for I
felt sure that I was on the track of a very real, very secret, and
very ancient religion whose discovery would make me an anthropologist
of note. My attitude was still one of absolute materialism, _as I wish
it still were_, and I discounted with almost inexplicable perversity
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
Professor Angell.

One thing which I began to suspect, and which I now fear I _know_, is
that my uncle's death was far from natural. He fell on a narrow hill
street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign
mongrels, after a careless push from a negro sailor. I did not forget
the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult-members in Louisiana,
and would not be surprized to learn of secret methods and poison
needles as ruthless and as anciently known as the cryptic rites and
beliefs. Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in
Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead. Might not the deeper
inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come
to sinister ears? I think Professor Angell died because he knew too
much, or because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.

_3. The Madness from the Sea._

If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing
of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray
piece of shelf-paper. It was nothing on which I would naturally have
stumbled in the course of my daily round, for it was an old number of
an Australian journal, _Sydney Bulletin_ for April 18, 1925. It had
escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance
been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.

I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called
the "Cthulhu Cult," and was visiting a learned friend of Paterson,
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage
shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd
picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones. It was the
_Sydney Bulletin_ I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations
in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half-tone cut
of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had
found in the swamp.

Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item
in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length.
What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my
flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action. It
read as follows:

MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA

_Vigilant_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
    One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard. Tale of Desperate Battle
    and Deaths at Sea. Rescued Seaman Refuses Particulars of Strange
    Experience. Odd Idol Found in His Possession. Inquiry to Follow.

*       *       *       *       *

The Morrison Co.'s freighter _Vigilant_, bound from Valparaiso,
    arrived this morning at its wharf in Darling Harbour, having in tow
    the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht _Alert_ of
    Dunedin, N. Z., which was sighted April 12th in S. Latitude 34° 21',
    W. Longitude 152° 17', with one living and one dead man aboard.

The _Vigilant_ left Valparaiso March 25th, and on April 2d was
    driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
    storms and monster waves. On April 12th the derelict was sighted;
    and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain
    one survivor in a half-delirious condition and one man who had
    evidently been dead for more than a week.

The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown
    origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities
    at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College
    Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says
    he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of
    common pattern.

This man, after recovering his senses, told an exceedingly strange
    story of piracy and slaughter. He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian
    of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two-masted
    schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
    with a complement of eleven men.

The _Emma_, he says, was delayed and thrown widely south of her
    course by the great storm of March 1st, and on March 22d, in S.
    Latitude 49° 51´, W. Longitude 128° 34´, encountered the _Alert_,
    manned by a queer and evil-looking crew of Kanakas and half-castes.
    Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt. Collins refused;
    whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without
    warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass
    cannon forming part of the yacht's equipment.
