“He remembers,” muttered Orastes. “Lift him out of the case.”

The others obeyed hesitantly, as if they were afraid to touch the man they had brought back to life, and they didn’t feel any easier when they felt firm, muscular flesh, pulsing with blood and life, under their fingers. But they lifted him onto the table, and Orastes dressed him in a strange dark velvet robe decorated with gold stars and crescent moons, then fastened a gold cloth band around his temples to hold back the black wavy hair that fell to his shoulders. He let them do as they wished, saying nothing, not even when they placed him in a carved, throne-like chair with a tall ebony back, wide silver arms, and feet shaped like golden claws. He sat there motionless, and slowly intelligence returned to his dark eyes, making them deep, strange, and luminous. It was as if long-buried witchlights were rising slowly through midnight pools of darkness.

Orastes cast a cautious glance at his companions, who stood staring in grim fascination at their strange guest. Their iron nerves had endured an ordeal that might have driven weaker men insane. He knew he was dealing with no cowards, but with men whose courage matched their lawless ambition and capacity for evil. He turned his attention back to the figure in the black chair. And at last, the man spoke.

“I remember,” he said in a strong, resonant voice, speaking Nemedian with a strange, ancient accent. “I am Xaltotun, who was high priest of Set in Python, which was in Acheron. The Heart of Ahriman—I dreamed I had found it again—where is it?”

Orastes placed it in his hand, and Xaltotun drew a deep breath as he gazed into the depths of the terrible jewel burning in his grasp.

“They stole it from me long ago,” he said. “It is the red heart of the night, powerful to save or to damn. It came from far away, and from long ago. While I held it, no one could stand against me. But it was stolen from me, and Acheron fell, and I fled into exile in dark Stygia. I remember much, but much I have forgotten. I have been in a far land, across misty voids and gulfs and unlit oceans. What year is this?”

Orastes answered him. “It is the waning of the Year of the Lion, three thousand years after the fall of Acheron.”

“Three thousand years!” murmured the other. “So long? Who are you?”

“I am Orastes, once a priest of Mitra. This man is Amalric, baron of Tor, in Nemedia; this one is Tarascus, younger brother of the king of Nemedia; and this tall man is Valerius, rightful heir to the throne of Aquilonia.”

“Why have you given me life?” demanded Xaltotun. “What do you want from me?”

The man was now fully alive and aware, his sharp eyes reflecting the activity of a clear, unclouded mind. There was no hesitation or uncertainty in his manner. He went straight to the point, as one who knows that no one gives something for nothing. Orastes met him with equal frankness.

“We have opened the gates of hell tonight to free your soul and return it to your body because we need your help. We want to place Tarascus on the throne of Nemedia, and to win for Valerius the crown of Aquilonia. With your sorcery, you can help us.”

Xaltotun’s mind was twisted and full of unexpected turns.

“You must be deeply skilled in the arts yourself, Orastes, to have been able to restore my life. How is it that a priest of Mitra knows of the Heart of Ahriman and the incantations of Skelos?”

“I am no longer a priest of Mitra,” answered Orastes. “I was cast out of my order because of my studies in black magic. If not for Amalric there, I might have been burned as a sorcerer.

“But that left me free to pursue my studies. I traveled in Zamora, in Vendhya, in Stygia, and through the haunted jungles of Khitai. I read the iron-bound books of Skelos and spoke with unseen beings in deep wells and faceless shapes in black, stinking jungles. I caught a glimpse of your sarcophagus in the demon-haunted crypts beneath the black, giant-walled temple of Set in the wilds of Stygia, and I learned the arts that could bring life back to your shriveled corpse. From decaying manuscripts I learned of the Heart of Ahriman. Then for a year I searched for its hiding place, and at last I found it.”

“Then why bother to bring me back to life?” demanded Xaltotun, his piercing gaze fixed on the priest. “Why didn’t you use the Heart to increase your own power?”

“Because no man today knows the secrets of the Heart,” answered Orastes. “Not even in legend do the arts survive that could unlock its full powers. I knew it could restore life; of its deeper secrets I am ignorant. I only used it to bring you back to life. It is your knowledge we seek. As for the Heart, only you know its terrible secrets.”

Xaltotun shook his head, staring broodingly into the flaming depths.

“My necromantic knowledge is greater than the combined knowledge of all other men,” he said, “yet even I do not know the full power of the jewel. I did not invoke it in the old days; I guarded it lest it be used against me. At last it was stolen, and in the hands of a feathered shaman of the barbarians it defeated all my mighty sorcery. Then it vanished, and I was poisoned by the jealous priests of Stygia before I could learn where it had been hidden.”

“It was hidden in a cavern beneath the temple of Mitra, in Tarantia,” said Orastes. “By secret means I discovered this, after I had located your remains in Set’s underground temple in Stygia.

“Zamorian thieves, partly protected by spells I learned from sources better left unnamed, stole your mummy-case from under the very claws of those who guarded it in the dark, and by camel caravan, ship, and ox-wagon it finally came to this city.

“Those same thieves—or rather, those of them who survived their dreadful quest—stole the Heart of Ahriman from its haunted cavern beneath the temple of Mitra, and even then, all the skill of men and the spells of sorcerers nearly failed. One of them lived long enough to reach me and place the jewel in my hands before he died, raving and gibbering about what he had seen in that cursed crypt. The thieves of Zamora are the most faithful men alive to their trust. Even with my enchantments, only they could have stolen the Heart from where it had lain in demon-guarded darkness since the fall of Acheron, three thousand years ago.”