Zenobia had chosen wisely when she picked the white horse. Its speed, toughness, and endurance were obvious. The girl knew weapons and horses—and, Conan thought with some satisfaction, she also knew men. He rode westward at a pace that devoured the miles.  

He traveled through a sleeping land, passing villages sheltered by groves and white-walled villas surrounded by wide fields and orchards that grew fewer as he went west. As the villages thinned out, the land became rougher, and the fortresses that loomed from the hills spoke of centuries of border wars. But no one rode down from those castles to challenge or stop him. The lords of those keeps were following Amalric’s banner; the flags that once flew over those towers now waved over the Aquilonian plains.  

When the last clustered village was behind him, Conan left the road, which was beginning to curve northwest toward the distant mountain passes. Staying on the road would mean passing border towers still manned by soldiers who would not let him go without question. He knew there would be no patrols riding the borderlands on either side, as there were in normal times, but those towers remained, and by dawn there would likely be groups of returning soldiers, some wounded and carried in ox-carts.  

This road from Belverus was the only one that crossed the border for fifty miles north to south. It followed a chain of passes through the hills, and on either side stretched a wide region of wild, sparsely inhabited mountains. He kept heading due west, planning to cross the border deep in the wilderness of the hills south of the passes. It was a shorter but harder route, and safer for a fugitive. One man on horseback could travel through country that an army would find impossible.  

But by dawn he still hadn’t reached the hills; they stretched before him like a long, low blue wall along the horizon. There were no farms or villages here, no white villas among clustered trees. The dawn wind stirred the tall, stiff grass, and there was nothing but long rolling waves of brown earth covered with dry grass, and far off, the stark walls of a fortress on a low hill. Too many Aquilonian raiders had crossed the mountains in recent years for this land to be as thickly settled as the regions farther east.  

Dawn spread like wildfire across the grasslands, and high above came a strange crying as a scattered wedge of wild geese flew swiftly south. In a grassy hollow Conan stopped and unsaddled his horse. Its sides were heaving, its coat slick with sweat. He had driven it mercilessly through the hours before dawn.  

While it grazed on the brittle grass and rolled on the ground, he lay on the crest of a low slope, staring east. Far to the north he could see the road he had left, stretching like a white ribbon over a distant rise. No black dots moved along that shining line. There was no sign from the distant castle that anyone there had noticed the lone traveler.  

An hour later the land was still bare. The only sign of life was a glint of steel on the far-off battlements and a raven circling in the sky, dipping and rising as if searching for something. Conan saddled up again and rode westward at a slower pace.  

As he reached the next ridge, a harsh screaming broke out above him. Looking up, he saw the raven flapping high overhead, cawing endlessly. As he rode on, it followed him, keeping its distance and filling the morning with its grating cries, ignoring his attempts to drive it off.  

This went on for hours, until Conan’s nerves were raw, and he felt he’d give half his kingdom just to wring that black neck.  

“Devils of hell!” he roared in helpless fury, shaking his mailed fist at the crazed bird. “Why do you torment me with your squawking? Get away, you black spawn of damnation, and go peck for grain in a farmer’s field!”  

He was climbing the first slope of the hills when he thought he heard an echo of the bird’s cries far behind him. Turning in his saddle, he soon spotted another black speck hanging in the blue sky. Beyond that, he caught the glint of the afternoon sun on steel. That could mean only one thing: armed men. And they weren’t riding along the main road, which lay out of sight beyond the horizon. They were following him.  

His face hardened, and he shivered slightly as he stared at the raven circling above.  

“So it’s more than the whim of a mindless beast?” he muttered. “Those riders can’t see you, spawn of hell—but the other bird can see you, and they can see him. You follow me, he follows you, and they follow him. Are you just a cleverly trained bird, or some demon in feathered form? Did Xaltotun send you after me? Are you Xaltotun yourself?”  

Only a harsh screech answered him, vibrating with mocking laughter.  

Conan wasted no more words on his dark betrayer. Grimly, he settled into the long grind up the hills. He dared not push the horse too hard; the rest he’d given it hadn’t been enough to restore its strength. He was still far ahead of his pursuers, but they would steadily close the gap. Their horses were almost certainly fresher than his, for they had probably changed mounts at that castle he had passed.  

The terrain grew rougher, the landscape more rugged, with steep grassy slopes rising into thickly forested mountainsides. Here, he knew, he might lose his hunters—if not for that cursed bird shrieking endlessly above him. He could no longer see his pursuers in this broken country, but he was sure they still followed, guided unerringly by their feathered ally. That black shape became like a demonic tormentor, hounding him through endless hells. The stones he hurled with a curse missed or fell harmlessly, though in his youth he had brought down hawks in flight.  

The horse was tiring fast. Conan recognized the grim finality of his situation. He felt an unstoppable fate driving him. He could not escape. He was as much a prisoner as he had been in the dungeons of Belverus. But he was no man of the East to submit passively to what seemed inevitable. If he could not escape, he would at least take some of his enemies with him into eternity. He turned into a wide thicket of larches that covered a slope, searching for a place to make his stand.  