There was only one grim stain on the landscape—a burned stretch of ashes and blackened stone where, Conan knew, the grand villa of one of his most loyal supporters had once stood.  

The king didn’t dare approach the Galannus farm openly, since it lay only a few miles from the city. At twilight he rode through a wide forest until he spotted a gamekeeper’s lodge among the trees. Dismounting and tying his horse, he walked up to the thick arched door, planning to send the keeper to fetch Servius. He didn’t know what enemies might be hiding in the manor house. He had seen no soldiers, but they could easily be scattered throughout the countryside. As he drew near, however, he saw the door open and a compact man in silk hose and a richly embroidered doublet stride out and take a path that wound away through the woods.  

“Servius!”  

At the low call, the master of the estate spun around with a startled cry. His hand flew to the short hunting sword at his hip, and he recoiled from the tall, gray steel figure standing in the dusk before him.  

“Who are you?” he demanded. “What is your—Mitra!”  

His breath hissed inward and his ruddy face went pale. “Back! Why have you come back from the gray lands of death to haunt me? I was always your loyal man while you lived—”  

“As I still expect you to be,” said Conan. “Stop trembling, man; I’m flesh and blood.”  

Sweating with uncertainty, Servius stepped closer and stared into the face of the armored giant. Then, convinced that what he saw was real, he dropped to one knee and removed his plumed cap.  

“Your Majesty! This is a miracle beyond belief! The great bell in the citadel tolled your funeral days ago. People said you died at Valkia, crushed under a mountain of earth and broken stone.”  

“It was another man wearing my armor,” grunted Conan. “But we’ll talk later. If you have a piece of beef on your table—”  

“Forgive me, my lord!” cried Servius, jumping to his feet. “The dust of travel is gray on your armor, and I keep you standing here without rest or food! Mitra! I see clearly now that you’re alive, but I swear, when I turned and saw you standing there all gray and dim in the twilight, the marrow in my knees turned to water. It’s a dreadful thing to meet a man you thought dead in the woods at dusk.”  

“Tell the keeper to see to my horse—it’s tied behind that oak,” said Conan. Servius nodded and led the king up the path. The patrician, recovering from his supernatural fright, had become extremely nervous.  

“I’ll send a servant from the manor,” he said. “The keeper is in his lodge—but I dare not trust even my servants these days. It’s better that only I know you’re here.”  

As they neared the large house that glimmered faintly through the trees, he turned aside onto a little-used path that ran between tightly packed oaks whose interlocking branches formed a vault overhead, shutting out the dim light of the deepening dusk. Servius hurried through the darkness without speaking, his manner close to panic, and soon led Conan through a small side door into a narrow, dimly lit corridor. They moved quickly and silently through it, and Servius brought the king into a spacious chamber with a high, oak-beamed ceiling and richly paneled walls. Logs blazed in the wide fireplace, for the air had a frosty edge, and a great meat pie on a stone platter stood steaming on a broad mahogany table. Servius locked the heavy door and snuffed out the candles in the silver candlestick on the table, leaving the room lit only by the fire on the hearth.  

“Forgive me, your Majesty,” he said apologetically. “These are dangerous times; spies are everywhere. It’s best that no one can look through the windows and recognize you. This pie is fresh from the oven—I meant to eat it after speaking with my keeper. If your Majesty would be so kind—”  

“The light’s enough,” grunted Conan, sitting down without ceremony and drawing his dagger.  

He dug hungrily into the rich dish and washed it down with great gulps of wine from grapes grown in Servius’s own vineyards. He seemed completely unconcerned about danger, but Servius shifted uneasily on his seat by the fire, nervously fingering the heavy gold chain around his neck. He kept glancing at the diamond-paned windows glimmering faintly in the firelight and cocked his ear toward the door, as if half expecting to hear the soft tread of stealthy feet in the corridor outside.  

When he finished eating, Conan rose and sat on another bench before the fire.  

“I won’t endanger you long by staying here, Servius,” he said abruptly. “By dawn I’ll be far from your estate.”  

“My lord—” Servius lifted his hands in protest, but Conan waved him silent.  

“I know your loyalty and your courage. Both are beyond question. But if Valerius has taken my throne, it would mean death for you to shelter me if you were discovered.”  

“I’m not strong enough to defy him openly,” admitted Servius. “The fifty men-at-arms I could muster would be nothing but a handful of straw. You saw the ruins of Emilius Scavonus’s estate?”  

Conan nodded, frowning darkly.  

“He was the strongest noble in this province, as you know. He refused to swear allegiance to Valerius. The Nemedians burned him alive in the ruins of his own villa. After that, the rest of us saw how useless resistance would be—especially since the people of Tarantia refused to fight. We submitted, and Valerius spared our lives, though he imposed a tax that will ruin many. But what could we do? We thought you were dead. Many of the barons had been killed, others captured. The army was shattered and scattered. You have no heir to claim the crown. There was no one to lead us—”  

“Was there not Count Trocero of Poitain?” demanded Conan harshly.  

Servius spread his hands helplessly.  

“It’s true that his general, Prospero, was still in the field with a small army. Retreating before Amalric, he urged men to rally to his banner. But with your Majesty dead, men remembered old wars and civil feuds, and how Trocero and his Poitanians once rode through these provinces just as Amalric rides now, with fire and sword. The barons were jealous of Trocero. Some men—perhaps spies of Valerius—shouted that the Count of Poitain meant to seize the crown for himself. Old regional hatreds flared up again. If we’d had even one man of royal blood, we would have crowned him and followed him against Nemedia. But we had none.”