“It’s shaped like a great jewel, like a ruby, but it pulses with a blinding fire no ruby ever held. It glows like living flame—”

But Conan suddenly leapt to his feet and slammed his right fist into his left palm with a sound like thunder.

“Crom!” he roared. “What a fool I’ve been! The Heart of Ahriman! The heart of my kingdom! ‘Find the heart of your kingdom,’ Zelata said. By Ymir, it was the jewel I saw in the green smoke—the jewel Tarascus stole from Xaltotun while he lay in the sleep of the black lotus!”

Hadrathus was on his feet too, his calm falling away like a discarded cloak.

“What are you saying? The Heart stolen from Xaltotun?”

“Aye!” Conan thundered. “Tarascus feared Xaltotun and wanted to weaken his power, which he believed was bound to the Heart. Maybe he thought the wizard would die if the Heart were lost. By Crom—ahhh!” With a savage grimace of frustration and disgust, he dropped his clenched hand to his side.

“I forgot. Tarascus gave it to a thief to throw into the sea. By now the man must be near Kordava. Before I can catch him, he’ll board a ship and send the Heart to the bottom of the ocean.”

“The sea will not hold it!” exclaimed Hadrathus, trembling with excitement. “Xaltotun would have thrown it into the ocean himself long ago if he hadn’t known the first storm would cast it ashore again. But on what unknown beach might it land!”

“Well,” Conan said, regaining some of his usual confidence, “there’s no guarantee the thief will throw it away. If I know thieves—and I should, since I was one in Zamora in my youth—he won’t toss it into the sea. He’ll sell it to some rich merchant. By Crom!” He paced back and forth, his excitement growing. “It’s worth searching for! Zelata told me to find the heart of my kingdom, and everything else she showed me proved true. Could it be that the power to defeat Xaltotun lies in that crimson gem?”

“Aye! I’d stake my life on it!” cried Hadrathus, his face alight with fervor, his eyes blazing, his fists clenched. “With it in our hands, we can challenge Xaltotun’s powers! I swear it! If we can recover it, we have a real chance to reclaim your crown and drive the invaders from our gates. It’s not Nemedia’s swords that Aquilonia fears, but Xaltotun’s black magic.”

Conan looked at him for a moment, impressed by the priest’s passion.

“It’s like a quest out of a nightmare,” he said at last. “Yet your words echo Zelata’s, and all else she said was true. I’ll search for this jewel.”

“It holds Aquilonia’s fate,” said Hadrathus with conviction. “I’ll send men with you—”

“No!” snapped the king impatiently, unwilling to be slowed down by priests, no matter how skilled in hidden arts. “This is a task for a warrior. I go alone. First to Poitain, where I’ll leave Albiona with Trocero. Then to Kordava, and to the sea beyond if I must. It may be that, even if the thief means to obey Tarascus’s order, he’ll have trouble finding a ship sailing out at this time of year.”

“And if you find the Heart,” cried Hadrathus, “I’ll prepare the way for your return. Before you come back to Aquilonia, I’ll spread word through secret channels that you live and are returning with a power greater than Xaltotun’s. I’ll have men ready to rise when you return. They’ll rise if they believe they’ll be protected from Xaltotun’s sorcery.

“And I’ll help you on your journey.”

He rose and struck a gong.

“A secret tunnel runs beneath this temple to a place outside the city walls. You’ll travel to Poitain on a pilgrim’s boat. No one will dare interfere with you.”

“As you wish.” With a clear goal burning in his mind, Conan was filled with impatience and fierce energy. “Only let it be done quickly.”

* * * * *

Meanwhile, events were moving swiftly elsewhere in the city. A breathless messenger burst into the palace where Valerius was amusing himself with his dancing girls. Throwing himself to one knee, he gasped out a confused story of a bloody prison break and the escape of a beautiful captive. He also brought word that Count Thespius, who had been charged with carrying out Albiona’s execution, was dying and begging to speak with Valerius before he passed.

Throwing on a cloak, Valerius followed the man through winding corridors until they reached a chamber where Thespius lay. There was no doubt the count was dying; bloody froth bubbled from his lips with each shuddering breath. His severed arm had been bound to stop the bleeding, but even without that, the wound in his side was fatal.

Alone in the room with the dying man, Valerius swore softly.

“By Mitra, I thought only one man alive could strike such a blow.”

“Valerius!” gasped the dying man. “He lives! Conan lives!”

“What are you saying?” exclaimed Valerius.

“I swear by Mitra!” gurgled Thespius, choking on the blood that filled his mouth. “It was he who carried off Albiona! He’s not dead—not some ghost come back from hell to haunt us. He’s flesh and blood, and more terrible than ever. The alley behind the tower is full of dead men. Beware, Valerius—he’s come back—to kill us all—”

A violent shudder ran through the blood-smeared body, and Count Thespius went limp.

Valerius frowned down at the corpse, glanced quickly around the empty chamber, then strode to the door and flung it open. The messenger and a group of Nemedian guards stood several paces down the corridor. Valerius muttered something that might have been satisfaction.

“Have all the gates been closed?” he demanded.

“Yes, your Majesty.”

“Triple the guards at each one. Let no one enter or leave the city without the strictest inspection. Send men to scour the streets and search every quarter. A very valuable prisoner has escaped, aided by an Aquilonian rebel. Did any of you recognize the man?”