The stallion panted, straining with effort. The landscape was changing in the deepening twilight. The bare plains gave way to clusters of oaks and alders. Low hills rose in the distance. Stars began to appear. The stallion gasped and staggered as he ran. But ahead loomed a thick forest stretching to the hills on the horizon, and between it and himself Conan caught sight of the dim shape of the fugitive. He urged the exhausted stallion onward, seeing that he was gaining on his prey, yard by yard. Above the pounding of hooves, a strange cry echoed from the shadows, but neither the pursuer nor the pursued paid attention.  

As they swept under the branches hanging over the road, they were almost side by side. A fierce cry burst from Conan’s lips as his sword rose; a pale oval face turned toward him, a sword flashed in a half-seen hand, and Beloso echoed the cry—and then the weary stallion, with a lurch and a groan, lost his footing in the shadows and went head over heels, flinging his stunned rider from the saddle. Conan’s throbbing head struck a stone, and the stars vanished into a deeper darkness.  

* * * * *  

Conan never knew how long he lay unconscious. His first sensation as awareness returned was that of being dragged by one arm over rough, stony ground and through thick underbrush. Then he was thrown down carelessly, and perhaps the impact jolted him back to his senses.  

His helmet was gone, his head throbbed horribly, nausea twisted his stomach, and blood was clotted thickly in his black hair. But with the vitality of a wild creature, life and consciousness surged back into him, and he became aware of his surroundings.  

A broad red moon shone through the trees, telling him it was long past midnight. He had been unconscious for hours—long enough to recover from the brutal blow Beloso had struck him, as well as from the fall that had knocked him out. His mind felt clearer than it had during that mad chase after the fugitive.  

He noticed with surprise that he wasn’t lying beside the white road. The road was nowhere in sight. He lay on grassy ground in a small clearing surrounded by a black wall of tree trunks and tangled branches. His face and hands were scratched and torn as if he had been dragged through thorns. Shifting his body, he looked around—and then he froze in shock. Something was crouching over him.  

At first Conan doubted his senses, thinking it was only a fever dream. Surely that strange, motionless gray creature squatting on its haunches and staring down at him with unblinking, soulless eyes couldn’t be real.  

Conan lay still, staring, half expecting it to vanish like a vision from a nightmare. Then a chill of recognition crept down his spine. Half-forgotten memories surged back—grisly tales whispered of the shapes that haunted these uninhabited forests at the foot of the hills marking the Zingaran-Argossean border. Ghouls, people called them—eaters of human flesh, spawn of darkness, the unholy offspring of a lost and forgotten race mingled with demons of the underworld. Somewhere in these ancient woods, men said, lay the ruins of a cursed city, and among its tombs crept gray, man-shaped shadows. Conan shuddered violently.  

He stared at the deformed head that loomed above him and cautiously reached for the sword at his hip. With a horrible cry that Conan instinctively echoed, the creature lunged for his throat.  

Conan threw up his right arm, and the beast’s dog-like jaws clamped down, driving the mail links into his flesh. Its twisted, human-like hands clawed for his throat, but he twisted and rolled his whole body, drawing his dagger with his left hand.  

They rolled and struggled across the grass, striking and tearing. The muscles beneath that gray, corpse-like skin were wiry and hard as steel, stronger than any man’s. But Conan’s own strength was iron, and his mail protected him from the snapping fangs and raking claws long enough for him to drive his dagger home again and again and again. The creature’s horrible vitality seemed endless, and the king’s skin crawled at the feel of that slick, clammy flesh. He poured all his hatred and disgust into the plunging blade, until suddenly the monster convulsed beneath him as the point struck its vile heart—and then it lay still.  

Conan rose, shaken and nauseated. He stood uncertainly in the center of the clearing, sword in one hand and dagger in the other. He hadn’t lost his instinctive sense of direction, but he didn’t know where the road lay. He had no way of knowing which way the ghoul had dragged him. Conan glared at the silent, black, moonlit forest surrounding him, feeling cold sweat bead on his skin. He was without a horse and lost in these haunted woods, and the deformed corpse at his feet was grim proof of the horrors lurking there. He stood almost holding his breath, straining his ears for the snap of a twig or the rustle of grass.  

When a sound finally came, he started violently. Suddenly, the scream of a terrified horse split the night air. His stallion! There were panthers in the forest—or perhaps ghouls fed on beasts as well as men.  

He tore through the brush toward the sound, whistling sharply as he ran, his fear drowned in furious rage. If his horse was killed, his last chance of catching Beloso and recovering the jewel would be gone. Again the stallion screamed in terror and fury, closer now. There was the sound of lashing hooves, a heavy impact, and something giving way.  

Conan burst suddenly onto the wide white road and saw the stallion plunging and rearing in the moonlight, ears pinned back, eyes and teeth flashing wildly. The horse lashed out with his hooves at a slinking shadow that darted and weaved around him—and then Conan saw other shadows moving around him: gray, stealthy shapes closing in from all sides. A hideous stench of death rose into the night air.  