“I’ll show you!” roared the enraged Cimmerian, spinning around and leaping toward the rail where the weapons hung in their brackets.  

The captain drew his knife and charged at him, shouting, but before he could strike, Conan seized his wrist and twisted with such force that the arm tore clean out of its socket. The captain bellowed like an ox in pain, then rolled across the deck as Conan contemptuously hurled him aside. Conan ripped a heavy axe from the rail and spun like a cat to face the rushing sailors. They charged, shouting like hounds, clumsy and slow compared to the panther-like Cimmerian. Before they could reach him with their knives, he sprang among them, striking right and left too fast for the eye to follow. Blood and brains splattered as two bodies hit the deck.  

Knives slashed wildly through the air as Conan broke through the stumbling, gasping mob and bounded onto the narrow bridge that spanned the waist from poop to forecastle, just out of reach of the slaves below. Behind him, the few sailors on the poop were stumbling after him, shaken by the slaughter of their comrades, while the rest of the crew—about thirty in all—came running across the bridge toward him, weapons in hand.  

Conan leaped onto the bridge and stood poised above the upturned black faces, axe raised, black mane whipping in the wind.  

“Who am I?” he shouted. “Look at me, you dogs! Look, Ajonga, Yasunga, Laranga! Who am I?”  

And from the waist rose a shout that swelled into a mighty roar: “Amra! It’s Amra! The Lion has returned!”  

The sailors who caught and understood the meaning of that terrifying cry went pale and shrank back, staring in sudden fear at the wild figure on the bridge. Could this truly be that bloodthirsty demon of the southern seas who had vanished mysteriously years ago, yet still lived on in bloody legend? The blacks were now in a frenzy, shaking and tearing at their chains, screaming the name of Amra like a prayer. Kushites who had never seen Conan before took up the cry. The slaves in the pen beneath the after-cabin began battering at the walls, shrieking like the damned.  

Demetrio, dragging himself along the deck on one hand and his knees, his face pale with the agony of his dislocated arm, screamed, “Get in there and kill him, dogs, before the slaves break loose!”  

Driven to desperation by that word—the one all galley men feared most—the sailors charged onto the bridge from both ends. But with a lion-like leap, Conan left the bridge and landed catlike on his feet on the walkway between the benches.  

“Death to the masters!” he thundered, and his axe came crashing down full on a shackle chain, splitting it like kindling. In an instant, a screaming slave was free, smashing his oar into a club. Men were racing frantically along the bridge above, and chaos exploded aboard the Venturer. Conan’s axe rose and fell without pause, and with every stroke another frothing, screaming black giant broke free, mad with hatred and the fury of freedom and vengeance.  

Sailors leaping down into the waist to grapple with or strike at the naked white giant hacking like a madman at the shackles found themselves dragged down by the hands of slaves still chained, while others, their broken chains whipping around their limbs, surged up from the waist like a blind black flood, screaming like demons, striking with broken oars and bits of iron, tearing and rending with claws and teeth. In the midst of the chaos, the slaves in the pen smashed down the walls and came surging up onto the deck, and with fifty blacks freed from their benches, Conan left off breaking chains and bounded up onto the bridge to add his notched axe to the bludgeons of his followers.  

Then came the slaughter. The Argosseans were strong, sturdy, and fearless, like all their race, hardened by the brutal life of the sea. But they could not stand against these maddened giants led by the tigerish barbarian. Beatings, torment, and hellish suffering were avenged in one red storm of fury that raged like a typhoon from one end of the ship to the other. When it was over, only one white man lived aboard the Venturer—the blood-smeared giant around whom the chanting blacks gathered, throwing themselves prostrate on the bloody deck and beating their heads against the boards in a frenzy of worship.  

Conan, his massive chest heaving and glistening with sweat, the red axe gripped in his blood-smeared hand, glared around him like the first chief of men might have glared in the dawn of time, shaking back his black mane. In that moment, he was not the king of Aquilonia; he was once again the lord of the black corsairs, who had hacked his way to power through fire and blood.  

“Amra! Amra!” chanted the delirious blacks, those who still lived to chant. “The Lion has returned! Now the Stygians will howl like dogs in the night, and the black dogs of Kush will howl! Now villages will burn and ships will sink! Aie, there will be the wailing of women and the thunder of spears!”  

“Stop that racket, you dogs!” Conan roared, his voice drowning out the snap of the sail in the wind. “Ten of you go below and free the oarsmen still chained. The rest of you, man the sweeps and get to the oars and rigging. Crom’s devils, can’t you see we’ve drifted inshore during the fight? Do you want to run aground and be taken by the Argosseans? Throw these corpses overboard. Move, you rogues, or I’ll carve notches in your hides myself!”  

With shouts, laughter, and wild singing, they leaped to obey. The corpses, white and black alike, were hurled overboard, where triangular fins were already slicing through the water.  

Conan stood on the poop, frowning down at the black men who watched him expectantly. His heavy brown arms were folded, his long black hair, grown wild during his wanderings, whipped in the wind. A wilder, more barbaric figure had never stood on a ship’s bridge, and few of the courtiers of Aquilonia would have recognized their king in this fierce corsair.  

“There’s food in the hold!” he roared. “Plenty of weapons for you, for this ship carried blades and armor to the Shemites along the coast. There are enough of us to sail her—and to fight! You rowed in chains for the Argossean dogs; will you row as free men for Amra?”  