Valerius remembered a dying nobleman who had gasped out a tale of terror, and he remembered four Khitans who had vanished into the southern labyrinths and never returned. But he kept silent, because hatred and suspicion of his allies gnawed at him like a worm, and he wanted nothing more than to see both the rebels and the Nemedians destroyed together in a death struggle.  

But Amalric burst out, “It’s ridiculous to think Conan is still alive!”  

In response, Xaltotun tossed a rolled parchment onto the table.  

Amalric snatched it up and glared at it. A furious, incoherent cry escaped his lips as he read:  

To Xaltotun, grand fakir of Nemedia: Dog of Acheron, I’m coming back to my kingdom, and I plan to hang your hide on a bramble.  

Conan  

“A forgery!” shouted Amalric.  

Xaltotun shook his head.  

“It’s real. I compared it to the signature on the royal documents kept in the court archives. No one could copy that bold scrawl.”  

“Then if Conan really lives,” muttered Amalric, “this rebellion won’t be like the others, because he’s the only man alive who can unite the Aquilonians. But,” he protested, “this doesn’t sound like Conan. Why would he warn us with his boasting? You’d think he’d strike without warning, like a barbarian.”  

“We’re already warned,” said Xaltotun. “Our spies have reported preparations for war in Poitain. He couldn’t cross the mountains without us knowing, so he sends me his challenge in his usual fashion.”  

“Why to you?” demanded Valerius. “Why not to me, or to Tarascus?”  

Xaltotun turned his unreadable gaze on the king.  

“Conan is wiser than you,” he said finally. “He already knows what you kings have yet to learn—that it’s not Tarascus, nor Valerius, nor Amalric, but Xaltotun who is the true master of the western nations.”  

They didn’t reply; they just sat staring at him, overwhelmed by the chilling realization that his words were true.  

“There’s no path for me but the imperial road,” said Xaltotun. “But first we must destroy Conan. I don’t know how he escaped me at Belverus, because the knowledge of what happened while I lay in the sleep of the black lotus is hidden from me. But he’s in the south, raising an army. It’s his last desperate move, made possible only by the desperation of the people who have suffered under Valerius. Let them rise; I hold them all in the palm of my hand. We’ll wait until he moves against us, and then we’ll crush him once and for all.  

“Then we’ll destroy Poitain, Gunderland, and the foolish Bossonians. After them, Ophir, Argos, Zingara, Koth—all the nations of the world will be forged into one vast empire. You’ll rule as my satraps, and as my captains you’ll be greater than kings are now. I’m invincible, because the Heart of Ahriman is hidden where no man can ever use it against me again.”  

Tarascus turned his eyes away so Xaltotun wouldn’t read his thoughts. He knew the wizard hadn’t looked inside the golden chest with its carved serpents that seemed to sleep since he had placed the Heart within it. Strangely, Xaltotun didn’t know the Heart had been stolen; the strange jewel was beyond or outside the reach of his dark knowledge, and his uncanny powers didn’t warn him that the chest was empty. Tarascus didn’t believe Xaltotun knew the full extent of Orastes’ revelations, because the Pythonian had spoken only of building a new earthly empire, not of restoring Acheron. Tarascus didn’t think Xaltotun was yet completely sure of his own power; just as they needed his help for their ambitions, he needed theirs. Magic still depended, to some degree, on sword strokes and lance thrusts. The king caught meaning in Amalric’s secret glance—let the wizard use his sorcery to help them defeat their most dangerous enemy. There would be time enough later to turn against him. There might still be a way to outwit the dark power they had unleashed.  

21 - DRUMS OF PERIL  

The news of war was confirmed when the army of Poitain, ten thousand strong, marched through the southern passes with banners flying and steel gleaming. And at their head, the spies swore, rode a giant figure in black armor, the royal lion of Aquilonia embroidered in gold on the breast of his rich silk surcoat. Conan lived! The king lived! There was no doubt in anyone’s mind now, friend or foe alike.  

Along with the news of the southern invasion came reports, brought by hard-riding messengers, that a host of Gundermen was marching south, joined by the barons of the northwest and the northern Bossonians. Tarascus marched with thirty-one thousand men to Galparan, on the river Shirki, which the Gundermen would have to cross to reach the towns still held by the Nemedians. The Shirki was a fast, wild river rushing southwest through rocky gorges and canyons, and there were few places where an army could cross at that time of year, when the stream was nearly full from the melting snow. All the land east of the Shirki was in Nemedian hands, and it was logical to assume that the Gundermen would try to cross either at Galparan or at Tanasul, which lay south of Galparan. Reinforcements were expected daily from Nemedia, until word came that the king of Ophir was making hostile moves on Nemedia’s southern border, and sending more troops would risk an invasion from the south.  

Amalric and Valerius marched out from Tarantia with twenty-five thousand men, leaving behind as large a garrison as they dared to prevent uprisings in the cities while they were gone. They wanted to meet and destroy Conan before he could join forces with the kingdom’s rebels.  

The king and his Poitanians had crossed the mountains, but there had been no real fighting yet, no attacks on towns or fortresses. Conan had appeared and vanished again. Apparently, he had turned west through the wild, sparsely settled hill country and entered the Bossonian marches, gathering recruits as he went. Amalric and Valerius, with their army of Nemedians, Aquilonian traitors, and savage mercenaries, moved through the land in frustrated fury, searching for an enemy who never appeared.  