Amalric found it impossible to get anything more than vague, general reports about Conan’s movements. His scouting parties often rode out and never came back, and it wasn’t unusual to find a spy nailed to an oak tree. The countryside was rising up the way peasants do—savagely, murderously, and in secret. All Amalric knew for sure was that a large force of Gundermen and northern Bossonians was somewhere north of him, beyond the Shirki River, and that Conan, with a smaller force of Poitanians and southern Bossonians, was somewhere to the southwest.  

He began to fear that if he and Valerius advanced any farther into the wild country, Conan might slip past them entirely, circle around, and invade the central provinces behind them. Amalric pulled back from the Shirki valley and set up camp on a plain a day’s ride from Tanasul. There he waited. Tarascus stayed at Galparan, afraid that Conan’s maneuvers were meant to lure him south and let the Gundermen cross into the kingdom from the north.  

* * * * *  

Xaltotun came to Amalric’s camp in his chariot drawn by those eerie, tireless horses, and entered Amalric’s tent, where the baron was conferring with Valerius over a map spread out on an ivory camp table.  

Xaltotun crumpled the map and tossed it aside.  

“What your scouts can’t find out,” he said, “my spies tell me—though their reports are strangely blurred and incomplete, as if unseen powers were working against me.  

“Conan is advancing along the Shirki River with ten thousand Poitanians, three thousand southern Bossonians, and barons from the west and south with their retainers, numbering about five thousand. An army of thirty thousand Gundermen and northern Bossonians is pushing south to join him. They’ve made contact through secret communications used by those cursed priests of Asura, who seem to be working against me—and whom I’ll feed to a serpent when the battle’s done, I swear it by Set!  

“Both armies are heading for the crossing at Tanasul, but I don’t believe the Gundermen will cross the river. I believe Conan will cross instead, to join them.”  

“Why would Conan cross the river?”  

“Because it benefits him to delay the battle. The longer he waits, the stronger he becomes, and the more dangerous our position grows. The hills on the far side of the river are full of people fiercely loyal to him—outlaws, refugees, fugitives from Valerius’s cruelty. From all over the kingdom, men are hurrying to join his army, alone or in groups. Every day, our patrols are ambushed and wiped out by the locals. Rebellion is spreading through the central provinces and will soon break into open revolt. The garrisons we left there aren’t enough, and we can’t expect reinforcements from Nemedia anytime soon. I see the hand of Pallantides behind this unrest on the Ophirean border—he has family in Ophir.  

“If we don’t catch and crush Conan quickly, the provinces will erupt in rebellion behind us. We’ll have to retreat to Tarantia to defend what we’ve taken, fighting our way through a country in revolt, with Conan’s entire force at our heels, and then endure a siege in the city itself, with enemies both inside and outside the walls. No, we can’t wait. We must destroy Conan before his army grows too large, before the central provinces rise up. Once his head hangs above the gate at Tarantia, you’ll see how fast the rebellion collapses.”  

“Why don’t you just cast a spell on his army and kill them all?” Valerius asked, half mocking.  

Xaltotun stared at the Aquilonian as if he could see the full measure of the madness behind those wild eyes.  

“Don’t worry,” he said at last. “My magic will crush Conan in the end, like a lizard underfoot. But even sorcery works best when aided by pikes and swords.”  

“If he crosses the river and takes position in the Goralian hills, he might be hard to drive out,” said Amalric. “But if we catch him in the valley on this side, we can wipe him out. How far is Conan from Tanasul?”  

“At his current pace, he should reach the crossing sometime tomorrow night. His men are tough, and he’s pushing them hard. He’ll get there at least a day before the Gundermen.”  

“Good!” Amalric slammed his fist on the table. “I can reach Tanasul before he does. I’ll send a rider to Tarascus, ordering him to follow me there. By the time he arrives, I’ll have cut Conan off from the crossing and destroyed him. Then our combined forces can cross the river and deal with the Gundermen.”  

Xaltotun shook his head impatiently.  

“That plan might work against anyone but Conan. But your twenty-five thousand men aren’t enough to destroy his eighteen thousand before the Gundermen arrive. They’ll fight like wounded panthers. And what if the Gundermen arrive while the battle’s raging? You’ll be trapped between two armies and destroyed before Tarascus can reach you. He’ll get to Tanasul too late to help.”  

“Then what do you suggest?” demanded Amalric.  

“Move with your full strength against Conan,” said the man from Acheron. “Send a rider to tell Tarascus to join us here. We’ll wait for him, then march together to Tanasul.”  

“But if we wait,” protested Amalric, “Conan will cross the river and join the Gundermen.”  

“Conan will not cross the river,” said Xaltotun.  

Amalric’s head snapped up, and he stared into those dark, unreadable eyes.  

“What do you mean?”  

“Suppose there were torrential rains far to the north, at the source of the Shirki. Suppose the river flooded so badly that the crossing at Tanasul became impassable. Then we could bring up our entire force at our leisure, trap Conan on this side of the river, and crush him. And when the flood subsides—which I think it would the next day—we could cross the river and destroy the Gundermen. That way, we could use our full strength against each smaller army in turn.”  

Valerius laughed, as he always did at the thought of anyone’s ruin, friend or foe, and ran a restless hand through his unruly yellow hair. Amalric stared at the man from Acheron with a mix of fear and admiration.  