Half a dozen armored soldiers stepped out from the shadows. The firelight gleamed on their breastplates and helmet crests. Between them, they half led, half dragged a gaunt figure dressed in torn rags.  

Saluting, they said, “My lord, this man came to the outposts and said he wanted to speak with King Valerius. He’s an Aquilonian.”  

He looked more like a wolf—a wolf scarred by traps. Old wounds from shackles showed on his wrists and ankles. A large brand, the mark of a hot iron, marred his face. His eyes glared wildly through the tangle of his matted hair as he crouched before the baron.  

“Who are you, you filthy dog?” demanded the Nemedian.  

“Call me Tiberias,” the man replied, his teeth clicking in an involuntary spasm. “I’ve come to tell you how to catch Conan.”  

“A traitor, huh?” rumbled the baron.  

“People say you have gold,” the man muttered, shivering under his rags. “Give me some! Give me gold and I’ll show you how to defeat the king!” His eyes were wide and glassy, his outstretched hands trembling like claws.  

Amalric shrugged in disgust. But no tool was too low for his use.  

“If you’re telling the truth, you’ll have more gold than you can carry,” he said. “If you’re lying or spying, I’ll have you crucified upside down. Bring him along.”  

In Valerius’s tent, the baron pointed to the man crouching and shivering before them, clutching his rags around him.  

“He says he knows a way to help us tomorrow. We’ll need help if Xaltotun’s plan doesn’t work any better than it has so far. Speak, dog.”  

The man’s body twisted in strange spasms. His words came out in a stumbling rush:  

“Conan’s camp is at the head of the Valley of Lions. It’s shaped like a fan, with steep hills on both sides. If you attack him tomorrow, you’ll have to march straight up the valley. You can’t climb the hills on either side. But if King Valerius will accept my service, I’ll guide him through the hills and show him how to come up behind King Conan. But if we’re going to do it, we have to start soon. It’s many hours of riding—you have to go miles west, then miles north, then turn east and come into the Valley of Lions from behind, like the Gundermen did.”  

Amalric hesitated, tugging at his chin. In these chaotic times, it wasn’t unusual to find men willing to sell their souls for a few gold coins.  

“If you lead me astray, you’ll die,” said Valerius. “You understand that, don’t you?”  

The man shivered, but his wide eyes didn’t waver.  

“If I betray you, kill me!”  

“Conan won’t dare split his forces,” mused Amalric. “He’ll need all his men to repel our attack. He can’t spare any to set ambushes in the hills. Besides, this man knows his life depends on leading you as he promised. Would a dog like him sacrifice himself? Nonsense! No, Valerius, I think the man’s telling the truth.”  

“Or he’s an even greater thief than most, since he’d sell out his liberator,” laughed Valerius. “Very well. I’ll follow the dog. How many men can you spare me?”  

“Five thousand should be enough,” answered Amalric. “A surprise attack on their rear will throw them into confusion, and that’ll be enough. I’ll expect your attack around noon.”  

“You’ll know when I strike,” said Valerius.  

As Amalric returned to his pavilion, he was pleased to note that Xaltotun was still in his tent, judging by the blood-chilling cries that occasionally echoed into the night. When he later heard the clink of steel and the jingle of bridles in the darkness, he smiled grimly. Valerius had nearly outlived his usefulness. The baron knew Conan was like a wounded lion—deadly even in his final moments. When Valerius struck from behind, the Cimmerian’s desperate fury might well destroy his rival before he himself fell. All the better. Amalric felt he could easily do without Valerius once the way was cleared for a Nemedian victory.  

* * * * *  

The five thousand horsemen who rode with Valerius were mostly hardened Aquilonian deserters. In the still starlight, they moved out of the sleeping camp, following the westward line of the dark hills rising against the stars ahead. Valerius rode at their head, with Tiberias beside him, a leather thong tied around the traitor’s wrist and held by a soldier riding on his other side. Others followed close behind with drawn swords.  

“Try to trick us and you die instantly,” Valerius warned. “I don’t know every sheep path in these hills, but I know enough about the land to know which way we need to go to come in behind the Valley of Lions. Don’t lead us astray.”  

The man ducked his head, his teeth chattering as he babbled assurances of loyalty, staring stupidly up at the banner above him—the golden serpent of the old dynasty.  

Skirting the far ends of the hills that enclosed the Valley of Lions, they swung wide to the west. After an hour’s ride, they turned north, pushing through wild, rugged hills, following faint trails and twisting paths. By sunrise, they were several miles northwest of Conan’s position, and here the guide turned east, leading them through a maze of ridges and crags. Valerius nodded, judging their position by the peaks rising above the rest. He had kept his bearings well enough to know they were still heading in the right direction.  

But suddenly, without warning, a gray, misty mass came rolling down from the north, covering the slopes and spreading through the valleys. It blotted out the sun; the world became a blind gray void where one could see only a few yards ahead. Their advance turned into a stumbling, groping confusion. Valerius cursed. He could no longer see the peaks that had guided him. Now he had to rely entirely on the treacherous guide. The golden serpent banner hung limp in the windless air.  