“Well,” Conan said, regaining some of his usual confidence, “there’s no guarantee the thief will throw it away. If I know thieves—and I should, since I was one in Zamora in my youth—he won’t toss it. He’ll sell it to some rich merchant. By Crom!” He paced back and forth, his excitement rising. “It’s worth searching for! Zelata told me to find the heart of my kingdom, and everything else she said proved true. Could it be that the power to defeat Xaltotun lies in that crimson gem?”  

“Yes! I’d stake my life on it!” shouted Hadrathus, his face glowing with passion, eyes blazing, fists clenched. “With it in our hands, we can defy Xaltotun’s powers! I swear it! If we can recover it, we have a real chance to reclaim your crown and drive the invaders from our gates. It’s not Nemedia’s swords that Aquilonia fears, but Xaltotun’s dark sorcery.”  

Conan looked at him for a moment, moved by the priest’s intensity.  

“It’s like a quest out of a nightmare,” he said finally. “Yet your words echo Zelata’s, and everything else she said was true. I’ll go after this jewel.”  

“It holds Aquilonia’s fate,” said Hadrathus firmly. “I’ll send men with you—”  

“No!” snapped the king impatiently, unwilling to be slowed by priests on his mission, no matter how skilled in secret arts. “This is a job for a warrior. I go alone. First to Poitain, where I’ll leave Albiona with Trocero. Then to Kordava, and to the sea beyond if I must. Maybe even if the thief means to obey Tarascus’s order, he’ll have trouble finding a ship this time of year.”  

“And if you find the Heart,” cried Hadrathus, “I’ll prepare the way for your victory. Before you return to Aquilonia, I’ll spread word through secret channels that you live and are coming back with a magic stronger than Xaltotun’s. I’ll have men ready to rise when you return. They’ll rise if they know they’ll be protected from Xaltotun’s black magic.  

“And I’ll help you on your journey.”  

He stood and struck a gong.

“A hidden tunnel runs from beneath this temple to a place outside the city walls. You’ll travel to Poitain on a pilgrim’s boat. No one will dare interfere with you.”  

“As you wish.” With a clear goal before him, Conan burned with impatience and fierce energy. “Just make it quick.”  

* * * * *  

Meanwhile, events were moving swiftly in other parts of the city. A breathless messenger burst into the palace where Valerius was amusing himself with his dancing girls and, dropping to one knee, gasped out a confused story about a bloody prison break and the escape of a beautiful prisoner. He also brought word that Count Thespius, who had been charged with carrying out Albiona’s execution, was dying and begging to speak with Valerius before he passed away.  

Throwing on a cloak in haste, Valerius followed the man through twisting corridors until they reached a chamber where Thespius lay. There was no doubt the count was dying; bloody foam bubbled from his lips with every ragged breath. His severed arm had been bound to slow the bleeding, but even without that, the wound in his side was fatal.  

Alone in the room with the dying man, Valerius swore under his breath.  

“By Mitra, I thought only one man alive could strike such a blow.”  

“Valerius!” gasped the dying man. “He lives! Conan lives!”  

“What are you saying?” cried Valerius.  

“I swear by Mitra!” gurgled Thespius, choking on the blood that filled his mouth. “It was he who carried off Albiona! He’s not dead—no ghost come back from hell to haunt us. He’s flesh and blood, and more terrible than ever. The alley behind the tower is full of corpses. Beware, Valerius—he’s come back—to kill us all—”  

A violent shudder ran through the blood-smeared body, and Count Thespius went still.  

Valerius frowned down at the corpse, glanced quickly around the empty room, then strode to the door and threw it open. The messenger and a group of Nemedian guards stood several paces down the corridor. Valerius muttered something that might have been satisfaction.  

“Have all the gates been closed?” he demanded.  

“Yes, your Majesty.”  

“Triple the guards at each one. No one enters or leaves the city without the strictest inspection. Send men to search the streets and every district. A very valuable prisoner has escaped, helped by an Aquilonian rebel. Did any of you see the man?”  

“No, your Majesty. The old watchman caught a glimpse of him, but could only say he was a giant, dressed in the black clothes of the executioner, whose naked body we found in an empty cell.”  

“He’s a dangerous man,” said Valerius. “Take no chances with him. You all know the Countess Albiona. Search for her, and if you find her, kill her and her companion immediately. Don’t try to take them alive.”  

Back in his palace chamber, Valerius summoned four men of strange and foreign appearance. They were tall and thin, with yellowish skin and blank faces. They looked almost identical, dressed alike in long black robes that hid their sandaled feet. Their faces were shadowed by their hoods. They stood before Valerius with their hands folded inside their wide sleeves. Valerius looked at them without pleasure. In his travels he had met many strange peoples.  

“When I found you starving in the Khitan jungles,” he said abruptly, “exiles from your homeland, you swore to serve me. You’ve served me well enough, in your vile way. I need one more service from you, and then I’ll release you from your oath.  

“Conan the Cimmerian, king of Aquilonia, still lives, despite Xaltotun’s sorcery—or perhaps because of it. I don’t know. The dark mind of that resurrected devil is too twisted and cunning for any mortal to understand. But as long as Conan lives, I’m not safe. The people accepted me as the lesser of two evils when they thought he was dead. If he reappears, the throne will be shaking under me in rebellion before I can even raise my hand.  

“Maybe my allies plan to use him to replace me if they decide I’ve served my purpose. I don’t know. But I do know this world isn’t big enough for two kings of Aquilonia. Find the Cimmerian. Use your unnatural skills to track him down wherever he hides or runs. He has many friends in Tarantia. He had help when he carried off Albiona. It took more than one man, even a man like Conan, to cause all that slaughter in the alley behind the tower. But enough talk. Take your staffs and follow his trail. Where it leads, I don’t know. But find him! And when you find him—kill him!”  

The four Khitans bowed together and, still silent, turned and slipped soundlessly out of the room.
