1 - KNOWLEDGE OF LITERATURE.—NIL.
2 - PHILOSOPHY.—NIL.
3 - ASTRONOMY.—NIL.
4 - POLITICS.—FEEBLE.
5 - BOTANY.—VARIABLE. WELL UP IN BELLADONNA, OPIUM, AND POISONS
generally. Knows nothing of practical gardening.
6 - GEOLOGY.—PRACTICAL, BUT LIMITED. TELLS AT A GLANCE DIFFERENT SOILS
from each other. After walks has shown me splashes upon his trousers,
and told me by their colour and consistence in what part of London he
had received them.
7 - CHEMISTRY.—PROFOUND.
8 - ANATOMY.—ACCURATE, BUT UNSYSTEMATIC.
9 - SENSATIONAL LITERATURE.—IMMENSE. HE APPEARS TO KNOW EVERY DETAIL OF
every horror perpetrated in the century.
10 - PLAYS THE VIOLIN WELL.
11 - IS AN EXPERT SINGLESTICK PLAYER, BOXER, AND SWORDSMAN.
12 - HAS A GOOD PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE OF BRITISH LAW.

When I had got so far in my list I threw it into the fire in despair.
“If I can only find what the fellow is driving at by reconciling all
these accomplishments, and discovering a calling which needs them all,”
I said to myself, “I may as well give up the attempt at once.”

I see that I have alluded above to his powers upon the violin. These
were very remarkable, but as eccentric as all his other
accomplishments. That he could play pieces, and difficult pieces, I
knew well, because at my request he has played me some of Mendelssohn’s
Lieder, and other favourites. When left to himself, however, he would
seldom produce any music or attempt any recognized air. Leaning back in
his arm-chair of an evening, he would close his eyes and scrape
carelessly at the fiddle which was thrown across his knee. Sometimes
the chords were sonorous and melancholy. Occasionally they were
fantastic and cheerful. Clearly they reflected the thoughts which
possessed him, but whether the music aided those thoughts, or whether
the playing was simply the result of a whim or fancy was more than I
could determine. I might have rebelled against these exasperating solos
had it not been that he usually terminated them by playing in quick
succession a whole series of my favourite airs as a slight compensation
for the trial upon my patience.

During the first week or so we had no callers, and I had begun to think
that my companion was as friendless a man as I was myself. Presently,
however, I found that he had many acquaintances, and those in the most
different classes of society. There was one little sallow rat-faced,
dark-eyed fellow who was introduced to me as Mr. Lestrade, and who came
three or four times in a single week. One morning a young girl called,
fashionably dressed, and stayed for half an hour or more. The same
afternoon brought a grey-headed, seedy visitor, looking like a Jew
pedlar, who appeared to me to be much excited, and who was closely
followed by a slip-shod elderly woman. On another occasion an old
white-haired gentleman had an interview with my companion; and on
another a railway porter in his velveteen uniform. When any of these
nondescript individuals put in an appearance, Sherlock Holmes used to
beg for the use of the sitting-room, and I would retire to my bed-room.
He always apologized to me for putting me to this inconvenience. “I
have to use this room as a place of business,” he said, “and these
people are my clients.” Again I had an opportunity of asking him a
point blank question, and again my delicacy prevented me from forcing
another man to confide in me. I imagined at the time that he had some
strong reason for not alluding to it, but he soon dispelled the idea by
coming round to the subject of his own accord.

It was upon the 4th of March, as I have good reason to remember, that I
rose somewhat earlier than usual, and found that Sherlock Holmes had
not yet finished his breakfast. The landlady had become so accustomed
to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor my coffee
prepared. With the unreasonable petulance of mankind I rang the bell
and gave a curt intimation that I was ready. Then I picked up a
magazine from the table and attempted to while away the time with it,
while my companion munched silently at his toast. One of the articles
had a pencil mark at the heading, and I naturally began to run my eye
through it.

Its somewhat ambitious title was “The Book of Life,” and it attempted
to show how much an observant man might learn by an accurate and
systematic examination of all that came in his way. It struck me as
being a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity. The
reasoning was close and intense, but the deductions appeared to me to
be far-fetched and exaggerated. The writer claimed by a momentary
expression, a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye, to fathom a
man’s inmost thoughts. Deceit, according to him, was an impossibility
in the case of one trained to observation and analysis. His conclusions
were as infallible as so many propositions of Euclid. So startling
would his results appear to the uninitiated that until they learned the
processes by which he had arrived at them they might well consider him
as a necromancer.

“From a drop of water,” said the writer, “a logician could infer the
possibility of an Atlantic or a Niagara without having seen or heard of
one or the other. So all life is a great chain, the nature of which is
known whenever we are shown a single link of it. Like all other arts,
the Science of Deduction and Analysis is one which can only be acquired
by long and patient study nor, is life long enough to allow any mortal
to attain the highest possible perfection in it. Before turning to
those moral and mental aspects of the matter which present the greatest
difficulties, let the enquirer begin by mastering more elementary
problems. Let him, on meeting a fellow-mortal, learn at a glance to
distinguish the history of the man, and the trade or profession to
which he belongs. Puerile as such an exercise may seem, it sharpens the
faculties of observation, and teaches one where to look and what to
look for. By a man’s finger nails, by his coat-sleeve, by his boot, by
his trouser knees, by the callosities of his forefinger and thumb, by
his expression, by his shirt cuffs—by each of these things a man’s
calling is plainly revealed. That all united should fail to enlighten
the competent enquirer in any case is almost inconceivable.”

