“You mutinous dog!” he bellowed, stepping forward threateningly, his hand closing on the knife at his belt. “Get forward before I have you flogged! Watch your tongue, or by Mitra, I’ll have you chained with the blacks to pull an oar!”  

Conan’s volcanic temper, never long restrained, exploded. Not in years, even before he was king, had any man spoken to him like that and lived.  

“Don’t raise your voice to me, you tar-soaked cur!” he roared, his voice booming like the sea wind while the sailors stared in shock. “Draw that toy, and I’ll feed you to the sharks!”  

“Who do you think you are?” gasped the captain.  

“I’ll show you!” roared the enraged Cimmerian. He spun and leapt toward the rail, where weapons hung in their racks.  

The captain pulled out his knife and charged, roaring, but before he could strike, Conan seized his wrist and twisted so hard that the arm tore clean out of its socket. The captain bellowed like an ox in pain, then rolled across the deck as Conan contemptuously flung him aside. Conan ripped a heavy axe from the rail and spun like a cat to face the oncoming sailors. They rushed him, shouting like hounds, clumsy and slow compared to the panther-like Cimmerian. Before they could reach him with their knives, he leapt among them, swinging right and left too fast for the eye to follow. Blood and brains splattered as two bodies hit the deck.  

Knives slashed wildly through the air as Conan broke through the stumbling, gasping mob and bounded onto the narrow bridge that spanned the waist from poop to forecastle, just out of reach of the slaves below. Behind him, the few sailors left on the poop stumbled after him, shaken by the slaughter of their comrades, while the rest of the crew—about thirty in all—came running across the bridge toward him, weapons ready.  

Conan sprang out onto the bridge and stood poised above the upturned black faces, axe raised, black mane whipping in the wind.  

“Who am I?” he shouted. “Look, you dogs! Look, Ajonga, Yasunga, Laranga! Who am I?”  

From the waist rose a shout that swelled into a thunderous roar: “Amra! It’s Amra! The Lion has returned!”  

The sailors who heard and understood that terrifying cry went pale and shrank back, staring in sudden fear at the wild figure on the bridge. Could this truly be that bloodthirsty monster of the southern seas who had vanished so mysteriously years ago, yet still lived on in bloody legend? The blacks were now in a frenzy, shaking and tearing at their chains, screaming the name of Amra like a prayer. Kushites who had never seen Conan before joined the cry. The slaves in the pen beneath the after-cabin began smashing at the walls, shrieking like the damned.  

Demetrio, dragging himself along the deck on one hand and his knees, his face gray with the pain of his dislocated arm, screamed, “Get in there and kill him, dogs, before the slaves break loose!”  

Driven to desperation by that word—the most feared among all galley men—the sailors charged onto the bridge from both ends. But with a lion-like leap, Conan jumped from the bridge and landed lightly on his feet in the passage between the benches.  

“Death to the masters!” he thundered, and his axe came down with a crash on a shackle chain, slicing it apart like kindling. In an instant, a screaming slave was free, smashing his oar into a club. Men were racing frantically along the bridge above, and chaos exploded aboard the Venturer. Conan’s axe rose and fell without pause, and with every blow another screaming black giant broke free, crazed with hatred and the wild joy of freedom and revenge.  

Sailors who jumped down into the waist to fight or strike at the naked white giant were dragged down by the hands of slaves still chained, while others, their broken chains whipping around their limbs, surged up from the waist like a blind, black flood, screaming like demons, striking with broken oars and bits of iron, tearing and clawing with nails and teeth. In the midst of the chaos, the slaves in the pen smashed down the walls and poured onto the decks. With fifty blacks freed from their benches, Conan stopped hacking at the chains and bounded up onto the bridge to add his notched axe to the clubs of his followers.  

Then came the slaughter. The Argosseans were strong, tough, and fearless, as their race always was, trained in the brutal life of the sea. But they couldn’t stand against these maddened giants led by the tiger-like barbarian. Years of beatings, insults, and torment were avenged in one red storm of fury that raged like a typhoon from one end of the ship to the other. When it was over, only one white man was left alive aboard the Venturer—the blood-smeared giant around whom the chanting blacks crowded, throwing themselves face down on the bloody deck and beating their heads against the boards in wild worship.  

Conan, his massive chest heaving and glistening with sweat, the red axe clenched in his blood-smeared hand, glared around him like the first chief of men might have glared at the dawn of time, and shook back his black mane. In that moment he was no longer king of Aquilonia; he was once again lord of the black corsairs, who had fought his way to mastery through fire and blood.  

“Amra! Amra!” chanted the delirious blacks, those still alive to chant. “The Lion has returned! Now the Stygians will howl like dogs in the night, and the black dogs of Kush will howl! Now villages will burn and ships will sink! Aie, there will be the wailing of women and the thunder of spears!”  

“Stop that racket, dogs!” Conan roared, his voice drowning out the snap of the sail in the wind. “Ten of you, go below and free the oarsmen still chained. The rest of you, man the sweeps and get to the oars and rigging. Crom’s devils, can’t you see we’ve drifted toward shore during the fight? Do you want to run aground and be caught again by the Argosseans? Throw these bodies overboard! Move, you rogues, or I’ll mark your hides myself!”  

With shouts, laughter, and wild singing they rushed to obey. The corpses, white and black alike, were thrown overboard, where triangular fins already sliced through the water.  

Conan stood on the poop, frowning down at the black men who watched him expectantly. His heavy brown arms were folded, his long black hair, grown wild during his wanderings, whipped in the wind. A wilder, more savage figure had never stood on a ship’s bridge, and in this fierce corsair few of Aquilonia’s courtiers would have recognized their king.  

“There’s food in the hold!” he roared. “Plenty of weapons for you too, since this ship was carrying blades and armor for the Shemites along the coast. There are enough of us to sail her—yes, and to fight! You rowed in chains for the Argossean dogs; will you row as free men for Amra?”  

“Yes!” they roared. “We are your children! Lead us where you will!”  

“Then get to work and clean out that waist,” he ordered. “Free men don’t live in such filth. Three of you come with me and break out food from the after-cabin. By Crom, I’ll fill out your ribs before this voyage is done.”  

Another roar of approval answered him as the half-starved blacks hurried to obey. The sail swelled as the wind swept over the waves with renewed strength, and the white crests danced along the wind’s path. Conan planted his feet to the roll of the deck, breathed deeply, and spread his mighty arms. He might no longer be king of Aquilonia, but he was still king of the blue sea.  

16 – BLACK-WALLED KHEMI  
Black-Walled Khemi  

The Venturer swept southward like a living creature, her oars now pulled by free and willing hands. She had been turned from a peaceful merchant ship into a war galley, as much as such a change was possible. Men sat at the benches with swords at their sides and gilded helmets on their curly heads. Shields hung along the rails, and bundles of spears, bows, and arrows decorated the mast. Even the elements seemed to favor Conan now; the wide purple sail filled with a strong wind that held steady day after day, needing little help from the oars.  

Though Conan kept a man on the masthead day and night, they never caught sight of the long, low, black galley fleeing south ahead of them. Day after day the blue waters stretched empty before their eyes, broken only by fishing boats that scattered like frightened birds at the sight of the shields hanging along the rail. The trading season was nearly over for the year, and they saw no other ships.  