**1 – MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES**

“And you say he isn’t a medical student?”

“No. Heaven only knows what he’s studying. But here we are, and you can judge for yourself.” As he spoke, we turned down a narrow lane and went through a small side door that led into one of the hospital’s wings. I knew the place well, so I didn’t need a guide as we climbed the cold stone staircase and walked down the long corridor lined with whitewashed walls and dull-colored doors. Near the far end, a low arched passage branched off and led to the chemical laboratory.

It was a tall room, lined and cluttered with countless bottles. Broad, low tables were scattered around, covered with retorts, test tubes, and small Bunsen burners with their flickering blue flames. Only one student was there, bent over a distant table and completely absorbed in his work. When he heard our footsteps, he turned, jumped up, and cried out with delight. “I’ve found it! I’ve found it!” he shouted to my companion, running toward us with a test tube in his hand. “I’ve discovered a reagent that reacts only with hemoglobin and nothing else.” He looked as thrilled as if he’d struck gold.

“Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Stamford, introducing us.

“How do you do?” said Holmes warmly, gripping my hand with surprising strength. “You’ve been in Afghanistan, I see.”

“How on earth did you know that?” I asked, astonished.

“Never mind,” he said, chuckling to himself. “The real question is about hemoglobin. You understand the importance of my discovery, don’t you?”

“It’s interesting from a chemical point of view,” I said, “but practically—”

“Practically, man, it’s the biggest forensic discovery in years! Don’t you see? It gives us a foolproof test for bloodstains. Come here!” He grabbed my sleeve excitedly and pulled me to the table he’d been working at. “Let’s have some fresh blood,” he said, pricking his finger with a long needle and drawing a drop of blood into a pipette. “Now I’ll add this tiny amount of blood to a liter of water. You see, it looks just like clear water—the proportion of blood is no more than one in a million. But I’m sure we’ll still get the reaction.” As he spoke, he dropped in a few white crystals and added some clear liquid. Instantly, the mixture turned a dull mahogany color, and a brownish powder settled at the bottom of the glass jar.

“Ha! Ha!” he cried, clapping his hands and beaming like a child with a new toy. “What do you think of that?”

“It seems to be a very sensitive test,” I said.

“Beautiful! Beautiful! The old guaiacum test was clumsy and unreliable. And the microscopic test for blood cells is useless if the stains are even a few hours old. But this works whether the blood is fresh or old. If this had existed earlier, hundreds of murderers would have paid for their crimes long ago.”

“Really?” I murmured.

“Criminal cases often hinge on that one issue. A man is suspected months after the crime. His clothes are examined, and brown stains are found. Are they blood, mud, rust, fruit, or something else? That question has baffled experts for years—because there was no reliable test. Now, with the Sherlock Holmes test, there’ll be no more doubt.”

His eyes sparkled as he spoke, and he placed a hand over his heart, bowing as if an imaginary audience were applauding him.

“Congratulations,” I said, genuinely surprised at his excitement.

“Take the case of Von Bischoff at Frankfort last year. He would certainly have been hanged if this test had existed. Then there was Mason of Bradford, the notorious Muller, Lefevre of Montpellier, and Samson of New Orleans. I could name twenty cases where it would have been decisive.”

“You’re like a walking crime calendar,” said Stamford, laughing. “You should start a journal—call it ‘The Police News of the Past.’”

“It might make quite interesting reading,” said Sherlock Holmes, sticking a small piece of plaster over the prick on his finger. “I have to be careful,” he added with a smile, turning to me, “since I handle poisons quite a bit.” He held out his hand, and I saw it was mottled with bits of plaster and stained by strong acids.

“We came here on business,” said Stamford, sitting on a tall three-legged stool and pushing another toward me with his foot. “My friend here is looking for a place to live, and since you’ve been complaining that you can’t find anyone to share rooms with, I thought I’d introduce you two.”
Sherlock Holmes seemed genuinely pleased at the idea of sharing his rooms with me.  
“I’ve got my eye on a suite in Baker Street,” he said. “It would suit us perfectly. You don’t mind the smell of strong tobacco, do you?”  

“I always smoke ship’s myself,” I replied.  

“Good. I usually have chemicals around and sometimes run experiments. Would that bother you?”  

“Not at all.”  

“Let’s see—what other faults do I have? I get depressed sometimes and don’t say a word for days. Don’t think I’m being rude when that happens. Just leave me alone and I’ll be fine soon enough. Now, what about you? It’s best for two people to know each other’s worst habits before they start living together.”  

I laughed at this interrogation. “I keep a bull pup,” I said, “and I can’t stand noise because my nerves are shaky. I get up at all sorts of ridiculous hours, and I’m extremely lazy. I have other bad habits when I’m healthy, but those are the main ones right now.”  

“Do you count violin playing as one of those noises?” he asked, a little anxiously.  

“That depends on the player,” I said. “A well-played violin is heavenly—but a badly played one—”  

“Oh, that’s fine then,” he said with a cheerful laugh. “I think we can call it settled—assuming the rooms suit you.”  

“When shall we see them?”  

“Meet me here at noon tomorrow,” he said. “We’ll go together and arrange everything.”  

“Perfect—noon exactly,” I said, shaking his hand.  

We left him working among his chemicals and walked together toward my hotel.  

“By the way,” I suddenly asked, stopping and turning to Stamford, “how on earth did he know I’d just come from Afghanistan?”  

My companion smiled mysteriously. “That’s just one of his quirks,” he said. “Plenty of people have wondered how he figures things out.”  

“Oh, so it’s a mystery, is it?” I said, rubbing my hands. “That makes it all the more interesting. I’m really grateful you introduced us. ‘The proper study of mankind is man,’ you know.”  

“Then you’d better study him,” said Stamford as he said goodbye. “You’ll find he’s quite a puzzle. I’d bet he’ll learn more about you than you will about him. Goodbye.”  

“Goodbye,” I replied, and strolled back to my hotel, deeply intrigued by my new acquaintance.
