Then came the slaughter. The Argosseans were strong, tough, and fearless, as their race always was, trained in the brutal life of the sea. But they couldn’t stand against these maddened giants led by the tiger-like barbarian. Years of beatings, insults, and torment were avenged in one red storm of fury that raged like a typhoon from one end of the ship to the other. When it was over, only one white man was left alive aboard the Venturer—the blood-smeared giant around whom the chanting blacks crowded, throwing themselves face down on the bloody deck and beating their heads against the boards in wild worship.  

Conan, his massive chest heaving and glistening with sweat, the red axe clenched in his blood-smeared hand, glared around him like the first chief of men might have glared at the dawn of time, and shook back his black mane. In that moment he was no longer king of Aquilonia; he was once again lord of the black corsairs, who had fought his way to mastery through fire and blood.  

“Amra! Amra!” chanted the delirious blacks, those still alive to chant. “The Lion has returned! Now the Stygians will howl like dogs in the night, and the black dogs of Kush will howl! Now villages will burn and ships will sink! Aie, there will be the wailing of women and the thunder of spears!”  

“Stop that racket, dogs!” Conan roared, his voice drowning out the snap of the sail in the wind. “Ten of you, go below and free the oarsmen still chained. The rest of you, man the sweeps and get to the oars and rigging. Crom’s devils, can’t you see we’ve drifted toward shore during the fight? Do you want to run aground and be caught again by the Argosseans? Throw these bodies overboard! Move, you rogues, or I’ll mark your hides myself!”  

With shouts, laughter, and wild singing, they rushed to obey. The corpses, white and black alike, were thrown overboard, where triangular fins already sliced through the water.  

Conan stood on the poop, frowning down at the black men who watched him expectantly. His heavy brown arms were folded, his long black hair, grown wild during his wanderings, whipped in the wind. A wilder, more savage figure had never stood on a ship’s bridge, and in this fierce corsair few of Aquilonia’s courtiers would have recognized their king.  

“There’s food in the hold!” he roared. “Plenty of weapons for you too, since this ship was carrying blades and armor for the Shemites along the coast. There are enough of us to sail her—yes, and to fight! You rowed in chains for the Argossean dogs; will you row as free men for Amra?”  

“Yes!” they roared. “We are your children! Lead us where you will!”  

“Then get to work and clean out that waist,” he ordered. “Free men don’t live in such filth. Three of you come with me and break out food from the after-cabin. By Crom, I’ll fill out your ribs before this voyage is done.”  

Another roar of approval answered him as the half-starved blacks hurried to obey. The sail swelled as the wind swept over the waves with renewed strength, and the white crests danced along the wind’s path. Conan planted his feet to the roll of the deck, breathed deeply, and spread his mighty arms. He might no longer be king of Aquilonia, but he was still king of the blue sea.