Sherlock Holmes seemed genuinely pleased at the idea of sharing his rooms with me.  
“I’ve got my eye on a suite in Baker Street,” he said. “It would suit us perfectly. You don’t mind the smell of strong tobacco, do you?”  

“I always smoke ship’s myself,” I replied.  

“Good. I usually have chemicals around and sometimes run experiments. Would that bother you?”  

“Not at all.”  

“Let’s see—what other faults do I have? I get depressed sometimes and don’t say a word for days. Don’t think I’m being rude when that happens. Just leave me alone and I’ll be fine soon enough. Now, what about you? It’s best for two people to know each other’s worst habits before they start living together.”  

I laughed at this interrogation. “I keep a bull pup,” I said, “and I can’t stand noise because my nerves are shaky. I get up at all sorts of ridiculous hours, and I’m extremely lazy. I have other bad habits when I’m healthy, but those are the main ones right now.”  

“Do you count violin playing as one of those noises?” he asked, a little anxiously.  

“That depends on the player,” I said. “A well-played violin is heavenly—but a badly played one—”  

“Oh, that’s fine then,” he said with a cheerful laugh. “I think we can call it settled—assuming the rooms suit you.”  

“When shall we see them?”  

“Meet me here at noon tomorrow,” he said. “We’ll go together and arrange everything.”  

“Perfect—noon exactly,” I said, shaking his hand.  

We left him working among his chemicals and walked together toward my hotel.  

“By the way,” I suddenly asked, stopping and turning to Stamford, “how on earth did he know I’d just come from Afghanistan?”  

My companion smiled mysteriously. “That’s just one of his quirks,” he said. “Plenty of people have wondered how he figures things out.”  

“Oh, so it’s a mystery, is it?” I said, rubbing my hands. “That makes it all the more interesting. I’m really grateful you introduced us. ‘The proper study of mankind is man,’ you know.”  

“Then you’d better study him,” said Stamford as he said goodbye. “You’ll find he’s quite a puzzle. I’d bet he’ll learn more about you than you will about him. Goodbye.”  

“Goodbye,” I replied, and strolled back to my hotel, deeply intrigued by my new acquaintance.  