4 - A FLIGHT FOR LIFE  

The morning after his meeting with the Mormon Prophet, John Ferrier rode into Salt Lake City. He found his acquaintance who was heading for the Nevada Mountains and gave him a message for Jefferson Hope. In it, he warned the young man of the danger threatening them and urged him to return as soon as possible. After sending the message, Ferrier felt calmer and rode home with a lighter heart.  

As he neared his farm, he was surprised to see a horse tied to each gatepost. His surprise turned to anger when he entered the house and found two young men sitting in his living room. One, pale-faced and long-featured, lounged back in the rocking chair with his feet up on the stove. The other, a thick-necked youth with coarse, bloated features, stood by the window with his hands in his pockets, whistling a popular hymn. Both nodded to Ferrier as he entered, and the one in the rocking chair began to speak.  

“Maybe you don’t know us,” he said. “This here is Elder Drebber’s son, and I’m Joseph Stangerson. We traveled with you in the desert when the Lord reached out His hand and brought you into the true faith.”  

“As He will bring all nations in His own time,” said the other in a nasal tone. “He grinds slowly but very fine.”  

John Ferrier bowed coldly. He already guessed who they were.  

“We’ve come,” continued Stangerson, “following our fathers’ advice, to ask for your daughter’s hand—whichever of us you and she decide is best. Since I have only four wives and Brother Drebber here has seven, I think my claim is stronger.”  

“No, no, Brother Stangerson,” Drebber protested. “It’s not about how many wives we have, but how many we can support. My father has turned his mills over to me, and I’m the richer man.”  

“But my prospects are better,” Stangerson shot back. “When the Lord calls my father home, I’ll inherit his tannery and leather factory. Besides, I’m older than you and higher in the Church.”  

“The maiden will decide,” said young Drebber, smirking at his reflection in the mirror. “We’ll leave it to her choice.”  

During this exchange, John Ferrier stood fuming in the doorway, barely restraining himself from striking the two men with his riding whip.  

“Listen here,” he said at last, stepping forward. “When my daughter sends for you, you can come. Until then, I don’t want to see your faces again.”  

The two young Mormons stared at him in shock. To them, competing for the girl’s hand was a great honor to both her and her father.  

“There are two ways out of this room,” Ferrier said sharply. “The door and the window. Which one will you use?”  

His face looked so fierce and his hands so threatening that the visitors jumped up and hurried out. Ferrier followed them to the door.  

“Let me know when you’ve decided which of you it’s to be,” he said sarcastically.  

“You’ll pay for this!” Stangerson shouted, pale with rage. “You’ve defied the Prophet and the Council of Four. You’ll regret it for the rest of your life.”  

“The hand of the Lord will be heavy upon you!” cried young Drebber. “He will rise and strike you down!”  

“Then I’ll start the striking!” Ferrier roared, rushing toward the stairs for his gun. Lucy grabbed his arm and held him back. Before he could break free, the sound of galloping hooves told him the men were already gone.  

“The sanctimonious scoundrels!” he exclaimed, wiping the sweat from his forehead. “I’d rather see you in your grave, my girl, than married to either of them.”  

“And so would I, Father,” she replied firmly. “But Jefferson will be here soon.”  

“Yes. It won’t be long before he comes. The sooner the better—we don’t know what those men will try next.”  

It was indeed time for someone capable of helping and advising them to arrive. In all the history of the settlement, no one had ever defied the Elders so openly. If small offenses were punished harshly, what fate awaited this open rebel? Ferrier knew his wealth and position wouldn’t protect him. Others just as rich and respected had vanished before, their property handed over to the Church. He was a brave man, but he trembled at the vague, unseen dangers surrounding him. He could face any clear threat, but this uncertainty unnerved him. Still, he hid his fear from his daughter and pretended to take the matter lightly, though she, with the sharp perception of love, saw clearly that he was uneasy.  

He expected a message or reprimand from Young about his conduct, and he wasn’t wrong, though it arrived in an unexpected way. When he woke the next morning, he was startled to find a small square of paper pinned to the blanket over his chest. On it, in large uneven letters, were the words:  

“Twenty-nine days are given you for amendment, and then——”  

The dash was more terrifying than any written threat. How the warning had entered his locked room baffled him. His servants slept in an outbuilding, and all doors and windows had been secured. He crumpled the paper and said nothing to his daughter, but his heart grew cold with dread. The twenty-nine days clearly referred to the time Young had granted him. What strength or courage could stand against an enemy with such mysterious power? The same hand that pinned the note could have struck him dead, and he would never have known by whom.  

He was even more shaken the next morning. As they sat down to breakfast, Lucy suddenly cried out and pointed upward. In the center of the ceiling, written apparently with a burned stick, was the number 28. She didn’t understand its meaning, and he didn’t explain. That night he sat up with his gun, keeping watch. He saw and heard nothing, yet in the morning a large 27 had been painted on the outside of his door.  