“You can’t blame me if you don’t get along with him,” he said. “I only know him from running into him now and then in the lab. You suggested this arrangement, so don’t hold me responsible.”

“If we don’t get along, it’ll be easy enough to part ways,” I replied. “But honestly, Stamford,” I added, studying him closely, “it sounds like you have a reason for washing your hands of the matter. Is this man’s temper that bad, or what? Don’t beat around the bush.”

“It’s hard to put into words,” he said with a laugh. “Holmes is a bit too scientific for my taste—almost cold-blooded. I can imagine him giving a friend a dose of the newest vegetable alkaloid—not out of malice, mind you, but purely out of curiosity, just to see what happens. To be fair, I think he’d take it himself just as readily. He’s obsessed with precise, definite knowledge.”

“And that’s quite proper too.”

“Yes, but he takes it too far sometimes. When he starts beating corpses in the dissecting room with a stick, it gets a bit bizarre.”

“Beating the subjects?”

“Yes, to see how much bruising can occur after death. I saw him doing it with my own eyes.”

“And you say he isn’t a medical student?”

“No. Heaven only knows what he’s studying. But here we are, and you can judge for yourself.” As he spoke, we turned down a narrow lane and went through a small side door that led into one of the hospital’s wings. I knew the place well, so I didn’t need a guide as we climbed the cold stone staircase and walked down the long corridor lined with whitewashed walls and dull-colored doors. Near the far end, a low arched passage branched off and led to the chemical laboratory.

It was a tall room, lined and cluttered with countless bottles. Broad, low tables were scattered around, covered with retorts, test tubes, and small Bunsen burners with their flickering blue flames. Only one student was there, bent over a distant table and completely absorbed in his work. When he heard our footsteps, he turned, jumped up, and cried out with delight. “I’ve found it! I’ve found it!” he shouted to my companion, running toward us with a test tube in his hand. “I’ve discovered a reagent that reacts only with hemoglobin and nothing else.” He looked as thrilled as if he’d struck gold.

“Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Stamford, introducing us.

“How do you do?” said Holmes warmly, gripping my hand with surprising strength. “You’ve been in Afghanistan, I see.”

“How on earth did you know that?” I asked, astonished.

“Never mind,” he said, chuckling to himself. “The real question is about hemoglobin. You understand the importance of my discovery, don’t you?”

“It’s interesting from a chemical point of view,” I said, “but practically—”

“Practically, man, it’s the biggest forensic discovery in years! Don’t you see? It gives us a foolproof test for bloodstains. Come here!” He grabbed my sleeve excitedly and pulled me to the table he’d been working at. “Let’s have some fresh blood,” he said, pricking his finger with a long needle and drawing a drop of blood into a pipette. “Now I’ll add this tiny amount of blood to a liter of water. You see, it looks just like clear water—the proportion of blood is no more than one in a million. But I’m sure we’ll still get the reaction.” As he spoke, he dropped in a few white crystals and added some clear liquid. Instantly, the mixture turned a dull mahogany color, and a brownish powder settled at the bottom of the glass jar.

“Ha! Ha!” he cried, clapping his hands and beaming like a child with a new toy. “What do you think of that?”

“It seems to be a very sensitive test,” I said.

“Beautiful! Beautiful! The old guaiacum test was clumsy and unreliable. And the microscopic test for blood cells is useless if the stains are even a few hours old. But this works whether the blood is fresh or old. If this had existed earlier, hundreds of murderers would have paid for their crimes long ago.”

“Really?” I murmured.

“Criminal cases often hinge on that one issue. A man is suspected months after the crime. His clothes are examined, and brown stains are found. Are they blood, mud, rust, fruit, or something else? That question has baffled experts for years—because there was no reliable test. Now, with the Sherlock Holmes test, there’ll be no more doubt.”

His eyes sparkled as he spoke, and he placed a hand over his heart, bowing as if an imaginary audience were applauding him.

“Congratulations,” I said, genuinely surprised at his excitement.

“Take the case of Von Bischoff at Frankfort last year. He would certainly have been hanged if this test had existed. Then there was Mason of Bradford, the notorious Muller, Lefevre of Montpellier, and Samson of New Orleans. I could name twenty cases where it would have been decisive.”

“You’re like a walking crime calendar,” said Stamford, laughing. “You should start a journal—call it ‘The Police News of the Past.’”

“It might make quite interesting reading,” said Sherlock Holmes, sticking a small piece of plaster over the prick on his finger. “I have to be careful,” he added with a smile, turning to me, “since I handle poisons quite a bit.” He held out his hand, and I saw it was mottled with bits of plaster and stained by strong acids.

“We came here on business,” said Stamford, sitting on a tall three-legged stool and pushing another toward me with his foot. “My friend here is looking for a place to live, and since you’ve been complaining that you can’t find anyone to share rooms with, I thought I’d introduce you two.”