“That’s how Enoch Drebber met his end. After that, all I had left to do was the same for Stangerson, to settle John Ferrier’s debt. I knew he was staying at Halliday’s Private Hotel, so I hung around all day, but he never came out. I think he started to suspect something when Drebber didn’t show up. Stangerson was a careful, suspicious man. If he thought he could avoid me by hiding indoors, he was badly mistaken. I soon figured out which window was his bedroom. Early the next morning, I used some ladders lying in the lane behind the hotel and climbed into his room at dawn.  

I woke him and told him his time had come—to answer for the life he’d taken long ago. I told him how Drebber had died and gave him the same choice of poisoned pills. Instead of taking the chance to save himself, he jumped from his bed and grabbed at my throat. I stabbed him through the heart in self-defense. It would have ended the same way anyway—Providence would never have let his guilty hand choose anything but the poison.

“I don’t have much more to say, and it’s just as well, because I’m about finished. I kept driving my cab for another day or two, planning to save enough to get back to America. I was standing in the yard when a ragged boy came up asking if there was a cabby named Jefferson Hope, saying a gentleman at 221B Baker Street wanted his cab. I went round, suspecting nothing, and the next thing I knew, this young man here had snapped the bracelets on my wrists—neater work than I’ve ever seen. That’s my whole story, gentlemen. You can call me a murderer if you like, but I believe I’m as much an officer of justice as any of you.”

The man’s story had been so gripping, and his manner so intense, that we’d all sat silent and absorbed. Even the professional detectives—jaded as they were by endless crimes—seemed genuinely fascinated. When he finished, we sat for several minutes in silence, broken only by the scratching of Lestrade’s pencil as he completed his shorthand notes.

“There’s just one point I’d like a bit more information about,” Sherlock Holmes said at last. “Who was your accomplice—the one who came for the ring I advertised?”

The prisoner gave my friend a playful wink. “I can tell my own secrets,” he said, “but I don’t get other people into trouble. I saw your ad and thought it might be a trap—or maybe it really was the ring I wanted. My friend offered to go check it out. You’ve got to admit, he handled it neatly.”

“No doubt about that,” Holmes said warmly.

“Now, gentlemen,” the Inspector said seriously, “we must follow the proper legal process. On Thursday the prisoner will appear before the magistrates, and your attendance will be required. Until then, I’ll be responsible for him.” He rang the bell as he spoke, and Jefferson Hope was led away by two warders. My friend and I left the station and took a cab back to Baker Street.