“I can’t help thinking Gregson’s right, sir,” said Lestrade. “We’ve both tried and both failed. You’ve said more than once since I came in that you already have all the evidence you need. Surely you won’t keep it from us any longer.”

“Any delay in arresting the killer,” I said, “might give him time to commit another crime.”

Pressed by all of us, Holmes began to show some hesitation. He kept pacing the room, head down and brows drawn together, as he usually did when deep in thought.

“There won’t be any more murders,” he said finally, stopping suddenly and facing us. “You can set that worry aside. You asked if I know the killer’s name. I do. But knowing his name is a small thing compared to actually catching him. I expect to do that very soon. I have good hopes of managing it through my own arrangements, but it must be handled carefully. We’re dealing with a sharp and desperate man, supported, as I’ve discovered, by another just as clever. As long as he has no idea that anyone has a clue, we have a chance to catch him. But if he even suspected it, he’d change his name and disappear instantly among the four million people in this huge city. Without meaning to offend either of you, I have to say that I think these men are more than a match for the official force. That’s why I haven’t asked for your help. If I fail, I’ll take all the blame for that decision, and I’m prepared to do so. For now, I promise that the moment I can contact you without endangering my own plan, I’ll do it.”

Gregson and Lestrade didn’t look satisfied by this assurance or by Holmes’s dismissive comment about the police. Gregson flushed up to the roots of his blond hair, while Lestrade’s small eyes glittered with curiosity and resentment. Neither had time to speak before there was a knock at the door, and young Wiggins, the spokesman for the street boys, came in—small, scruffy, and unkempt.

“Please, sir,” he said, touching his forelock, “I’ve got the cab downstairs.”

“Good boy,” said Holmes pleasantly. “Why don’t you introduce this model at Scotland Yard?” he went on, taking a pair of steel handcuffs from a drawer. “See how smoothly the spring works. They lock in an instant.”

“The old model’s good enough,” said Lestrade, “if we can just find the man to put them on.”

“Very good, very good,” Holmes said with a smile. “The cabman can help me with my boxes. Ask him to come up, Wiggins.”

I was surprised to hear Holmes talk as though he were about to leave, since he hadn’t mentioned any trip to me. There was a small portmanteau in the room, which he pulled out and began to strap. He was busy with it when the cabman entered.

“Give me a hand with this buckle, cabman,” Holmes said, kneeling over his task without looking up.

The man came forward with a sullen, defiant look and reached down to help. At that instant there was a sharp click and the sound of metal. Sherlock Holmes jumped to his feet.

“Gentlemen,” he cried, eyes blazing, “let me introduce Mr. Jefferson Hope, the murderer of Enoch Drebber and Joseph Stangerson.”

It all happened in a flash—so fast I barely had time to take it in. I can still clearly remember Holmes’s triumphant expression and ringing voice, and the cabman’s stunned, furious face as he stared at the shining handcuffs that had appeared as if by magic on his wrists. For a second or two we might have been statues. Then, with a roar of rage, the prisoner tore himself free from Holmes’s grasp and hurled himself through the window. Wood and glass shattered before him, but before he could get through, Gregson, Lestrade, and Holmes leapt on him like hounds. They dragged him back into the room, and a fierce struggle began. He was so strong and wild that he threw all four of us off again and again. He seemed to have the convulsive strength of a man in an epileptic fit. His face and hands were badly cut from the glass, but the blood loss didn’t seem to weaken him. Only when Lestrade managed to get his hand inside the man’s neckcloth and half-strangle him did we finally make him realize resistance was useless. Even then we didn’t feel safe until we had tied his feet as well as his hands. Once that was done, we stood up, breathless and panting.

“We’ve got his cab,” said Sherlock Holmes. “It’ll do to take him to Scotland Yard. And now, gentlemen,” he added with a friendly smile, “we’ve reached the end of our little mystery. You’re welcome to ask me any questions you like now, and I promise I won’t refuse to answer.”