2. THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE

I had dropped in on my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the autumn of last year and found him deep in conversation with a very stout, florid-faced elderly gentleman with blazing red hair. I apologized for interrupting and was about to withdraw when Holmes seized me by the arm, pulled me into the room, and shut the door behind me.

“You couldn’t possibly have come at a better moment, my dear Watson,” he said warmly.

“I was afraid you were busy.”

“So I am. Very much so.”

“Then I’ll wait in the next room.”

“Not at all. This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has been my partner and assistant in many of my most successful cases, and I’ve no doubt he’ll be of the greatest use to me in yours as well.”

The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a little bob of greeting, shooting a quick, questioning glance at me from his small, fat-rimmed eyes.

“Try the sofa,” said Holmes, sinking back into his armchair and steepling his fingers, as he always did when in a judicial mood. “I know, my dear Watson, that you share my love for everything bizarre and outside the conventions and dull routine of everyday life. You’ve shown your taste for it by the enthusiasm that has led you to record—and, if you’ll excuse my saying so, somewhat embellish—so many of my little adventures.”

“Your cases have certainly been of the greatest interest to me,” I replied.

“You’ll remember that I remarked the other day, just before we took up the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must turn to life itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination.”

“A claim I took the liberty of doubting.”

“You did, Doctor, but all the same you’ll have to come round to my view, or I shall go on piling fact upon fact until your reason collapses under the weight and admits I am right. Now, Mr. Jabez Wilson here has been kind enough to call on me this morning and to begin a story which promises to be one of the most unusual I’ve heard for some time. You’ve heard me say that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the bigger crimes but with the smaller ones, and sometimes even where it’s doubtful whether any actual crime has been committed at all. So far as I’ve heard, I cannot say whether the present case is an example of crime or not, but the sequence of events is certainly among the most singular I’ve ever listened to. Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would be so good as to start your story again. I ask it not only because my friend Dr. Watson hasn’t heard the opening, but also because the peculiar nature of the tale makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your own lips. As a rule, when I’ve heard some slight indication of the course of events, I can guide myself by the thousands of similar cases that come to my mind. In this instance I’m forced to admit that the facts are, as far as I know, unique.”

Our portly client puffed out his chest with a touch of pride and pulled a dirty, wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat. As he ran his eye down the advertisement column, his head thrust forward and the paper flattened across his knee, I took the opportunity to study him and tried, in my companion’s fashion, to read whatever clues might be offered by his clothes and appearance.

I did not gain much, however, from my inspection. Our visitor showed every sign of being an ordinary, commonplace British tradesman: fat, pompous, and slow. He wore rather baggy gray shepherd’s-check trousers, a not-too-clean black frock coat, unbuttoned in front, and a drab waistcoat with a heavy, brassy Albert chain and a square, pierced bit of metal dangling from it as an ornament. A frayed top hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay on a chair beside him. Look as I might, there was nothing remarkable about the man except his flaming red hair and the expression of deep annoyance and discontent on his features.

Sherlock Holmes’s quick eye noticed what I was doing, and he shook his head with a smile as he caught my questioning glances. “Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labor, that he takes snuff, that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately, I can deduce nothing else.”

Mr. Jabez Wilson jerked upright in his chair, his forefinger still on the newspaper but his eyes fixed on my companion.

“How in heaven’s name did you know all that, Mr. Holmes?” he demanded. “How did you know, for instance, that I did manual labor? It’s as true as gospel, for I started as a ship’s carpenter.”

“Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is noticeably larger than your left. You’ve worked with it, and the muscles are more developed.”

“Well, what about the snuff and the Freemasonry, then?”

“I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you how I read those, especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you wear an arc-and-compass pin in your tie.”

“Ah, of course, I’d forgotten that. But the writing?”

“What else could be indicated by that right cuff, so very shiny for five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it on the desk?”

“Well, but China?”

“The fish tattooed just above your