“Your father,” said Holmes, “your stepfather, surely, since the name is different.”

“Yes, my stepfather. I call him father, though it sounds odd, really, because he’s only five years and two months older than I am.”

“And your mother is alive?”

“Oh yes, Mother is alive and well. I wasn’t at all pleased, Mr. Holmes, when she married again so soon after Father’s death—and to a man nearly fifteen years younger than she was. Father was a plumber in Tottenham Court Road, and he left a good business behind him, which Mother carried on with Mr. Hardy, the foreman. But when Mr. Windibank came, he made her sell the business, because he was very superior, being a wine traveller. They got £4,700 for the goodwill and interest, which was nowhere near what Father could have got if he’d been alive.”

I had expected Sherlock Holmes to grow impatient with this rambling, seemingly aimless story, but instead he listened with the most intense attention.

“Your own little income,” he asked, “does that come from the business?”

“Oh no, sir. It’s completely separate and was left to me by my Uncle Ned in Auckland. It’s in New Zealand stock, paying four and a half per cent. The amount was two thousand five hundred pounds, but I can only touch the interest.”

“You interest me greatly,” said Holmes. “And since you draw as large a sum as a hundred a year, and have your earnings besides, you no doubt travel a bit and indulge yourself in every way. I believe a single woman can live quite comfortably on about £60 a year.”

“I could manage on much less than that, Mr. Holmes, but you see, as long as I live at home I don’t want to be a burden to them, so they have the use of the money while I’m staying with them. Of course, that’s only for the time being. Mr. Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to Mother, and I find I can do pretty well on what I earn by typewriting. I get twopence a sheet, and I can often do fifteen to twenty sheets a day.”

“You’ve made your situation very clear to me,” said Holmes. “This is my friend Dr. Watson, to whom you can speak as freely as to me. Now please tell us everything about your connection with Mr. Hosmer Angel.”

A flush crept over Miss Sutherland’s face, and she nervously picked at the fringe of her jacket. “I met him first at the gasfitters’ ball,” she said. “They used to send Father tickets when he was alive, and afterwards they remembered us and sent them to Mother. Mr. Windibank didn’t want us to go. He never wanted us to go anywhere. He would get quite furious if I so much as wanted to go on a Sunday-school outing. But this time I was determined, and I would go; for what right had he to stop me? He said the people weren’t fit for us to know, when all Father’s friends were going to be there. And he said I had nothing fit to wear, when I had my purple plush dress that I’d never even taken out of the drawer. At last, when nothing else would stop me, he went off to France on business for the firm, and we went—Mother and I—with Mr. Hardy, who used to be our foreman. And it was there I met Mr. Hosmer Angel.”

“I suppose,” said Holmes, “that when Mr. Windibank came back from France he was very annoyed that you had gone to the ball.”

“Oh, he took it very well. He laughed, I remember, and shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying a woman anything, for she would have her own way.”

“I see. So at the gasfitters’ ball you met, as I understand it, a gentleman called Mr. Hosmer Angel.”

“Yes, sir. I met him that night, and he called the next day to ask if we had got home safely, and after that we met him—that is to say, Mr. Holmes, I met him twice for walks. But then Father came back again, and Mr. Hosmer Angel couldn’t come to the house any more.”

“No?”

“Well, you know, Father didn’t like anything of that sort. He wouldn’t have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say a woman should be happy in her own family circle. But then, as I used to say to Mother, a woman wants a circle of her own to begin with, and I hadn’t got mine yet.”

“But what about Mr. Hosmer Angel? Did he make no attempt to see you?”

“Well, Father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote and said it would be safer and better if we didn’t see each other until he had gone. We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every day. I brought the letters in in the morning, so there was no need for Father to know.”

“Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?”

“Oh yes, Mr. Holmes. We were engaged after the first walk we took. Hosmer—Mr. Angel—was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall Street, and—”

“What office?”

“That’s the worst of it, Mr. Holmes—I don’t know.”

“Where did he live, then?”

“He slept on the premises.”

“And you don’t know his address?”

“No—only that it was Leadenhall Street.”

“Where did you address your letters, then?”

“To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be held till called for. He said that if they were