“And what else?” I asked, as absorbed as I always was by my friend’s sharp reasoning.

“I noticed, in passing, that she had written a note before leaving home, but after she was fully dressed. You saw that her right glove was torn at the forefinger, but you apparently didn’t notice that both the glove and the finger were stained with violet ink. She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deeply. It must have been this morning, or the mark wouldn’t still be so clear on her finger. All this is entertaining, if rather elementary, but I must get back to business, Watson. Would you read me the advertised description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?”

I held the little printed slip up to the light. “Missing,” it said, “on the morning of the fourteenth, a gentleman named Hosmer Angel. About five feet seven inches in height; strongly built; sallow complexion; black hair, a little bald in the centre; bushy black side-whiskers and moustache; tinted glasses; slight speech impediment. Was dressed, when last seen, in black frock coat faced with silk, black waistcoat, gold Albert chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters over elastic-sided boots. Known to have been employed in an office in Leadenhall Street. Anybody bringing,” etc., etc.

“That will do,” said Holmes. “As to the letters,” he went on, glancing over them, “they are very ordinary. Absolutely no clue in them to Mr. Angel, except that he quotes Balzac once. There is one remarkable point, however, which will no doubt strike you.”

“They’re typewritten,” I said.

“Not only that, but the signature is typewritten. Look at the neat little ‘Hosmer Angel’ at the bottom. There is a date, you see, but no heading except ‘Leadenhall Street,’ which is rather vague. The point about the signature is very suggestive—in fact, we may call it conclusive.”

“Conclusive of what?”

“My dear fellow, can you really not see how strongly it bears on the case?”

“I can’t say that I do, unless it’s that he wanted to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were brought against him.”

“No, that was not the point. However, I shall write two letters which ought to settle the matter. One is to a firm in the City, the other is to the young lady’s stepfather, Mr. Windibank, asking whether he can meet us here at six o’clock tomorrow evening. It is just as well that we should conduct our business with the male relatives. And now, Doctor, we can do nothing until the answers to those letters arrive, so we may put our little problem on the shelf for the time being.”

I had had so many reasons to trust in my friend’s subtle powers of reasoning and his extraordinary energy in action that I felt he must have some solid grounds for the calm, assured manner with which he treated the strange mystery he had been called upon to unravel. Only once had I known him to fail—in the case of the King of Bohemia and the Irene Adler photograph. But when I thought back to the uncanny affair of The Sign of Four and the extraordinary circumstances surrounding A Study in Scarlet, I felt it would have to be a very strange tangle indeed that he could not unweave.

I left him then, still puffing at his black clay pipe, convinced that when I returned the next evening I would find that he held in his hands all the clues that would lead to the identity of Miss Mary Sutherland’s disappearing bridegroom.

A professional case of great seriousness was occupying my own attention at the time, and the whole of the next day I was busy at my patient’s bedside. It was not until nearly six o’clock that I found myself free and able to jump into a hansom and drive to Baker Street, half afraid that I might be too late to witness the dénouement of the little mystery. I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half asleep, his long, thin form curled up in the depths of his armchair. A formidable array of bottles and test tubes, and the sharp, clean smell of hydrochloric acid, told me that he had spent his day on the chemical work he loved so much.

“Well, have you solved it?” I asked as I entered.

“Yes. It was the bisulphate of baryta.”

“No, no—the mystery!” I cried.

“Oh, that! I was thinking of the salt I’ve been working on. There was never any mystery in the case, though, as I said yesterday, some of the details are of interest. The only drawback is that there is, I fear, no law that can touch the scoundrel.”

“Who was he, then, and why did he abandon Miss Sutherland?”

The question was barely out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footstep in the passage and a knock at the door.

“This is the girl’s stepfather, Mr. James Windibank,” said Holmes. “He has written to say that he would be here at six. Come in!”

The man who entered was a sturdy, medium-sized fellow of about thirty, clean-shaven and sallow-skinned, with a smooth, ingratiating manner and a pair of remarkably sharp, penetrating grey eyes. He shot a questioning glance at each of us, set his shiny top hat on the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled into the nearest chair.

“Good evening, Mr. James Windibank,” said Holmes. “I take it this typewritten letter is from you, making an appointment with me for six o’clock?”

“Yes,