“Juryman: When you came back after hearing the cry and found your father mortally wounded, did you see anything that made you suspicious?

“Witness: Nothing definite.

“Coroner: What do you mean by that?

“Witness: I was so upset and excited when I rushed out into the open that I could think of nothing but my father. Still, I have a vague impression that as I ran forward there was something lying on the ground to my left. It struck me as something grey in colour—a coat of some sort, or perhaps a plaid. When I got up from beside my father I looked around for it, but it was gone.

“‘Do you mean it had disappeared before you went for help?’

“‘Yes, it was gone.’

“‘You cannot say what it was?’

“‘No. I only had a feeling that something was there.’

“‘How far from the body?’

“‘About a dozen yards or so.’

“‘And how far from the edge of the wood?’

“‘Roughly the same.’

“‘Then if it was removed, it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?’

“‘Yes, but with my back turned to it.’

“This ended the witness’s examination.”

“I see,” I said, glancing down the column, “that in his closing remarks the coroner was rather hard on young McCarthy. He points out, quite reasonably, the discrepancy about his father signalling to him before he could have seen him, his refusal to give details of their conversation, and his strange account of his father’s dying words. As he says, all these things tell very strongly against the son.”

Holmes chuckled softly and stretched himself out on the cushioned seat. “You and the coroner,” he said, “have taken some trouble to pick out the very strongest points in the young man’s favour. Don’t you see that you’re alternately crediting him with too much imagination and too little? Too little, if he couldn’t invent some cause of quarrel that would win the jury’s sympathy; too much, if he could conjure up out of his own mind anything as bizarre as a dying reference to a rat, and the episode of the disappearing cloth. No, my dear fellow, I’m going to start from the assumption that what this young man says is true, and we shall see where that leads us. And now, here is my pocket Petrarch, and I won’t say another word about the case until we’re actually on the spot. We lunch at Swindon, and I see we’ll be there in twenty minutes.”

It was close on four o’clock when, after passing through the beautiful Stroud Valley and over the broad, gleaming Severn, we finally arrived at the pretty little country town of Ross. A lean, ferret-like man, furtive and sly in appearance, was waiting for us on the platform. Despite the light brown dust-coat and leather leggings he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings, I had no difficulty in recognising Lestrade of Scotland Yard. We drove with him to the Hereford Arms, where a room had already been reserved for us.

“I’ve ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade, as we sat over a cup of tea. “I knew your energetic nature, and that you wouldn’t be content until you’d been to the scene of the crime.”

“That was very kind and flattering of you,” Holmes replied. “But it’s entirely a matter of barometric pressure.”

Lestrade looked taken aback. “I don’t quite follow you,” he said.

“How’s the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud in the sky. I have a case full of cigarettes here that need smoking, and this sofa is vastly superior to the usual horrors one finds in country hotels. I don’t think it at all likely that I shall use the carriage tonight.”

Lestrade laughed indulgently. “You’ve no doubt already made up your mind from the newspapers,” he said. “The case is as plain as a pikestaff, and the more you look into it the plainer it gets. Still, of course, one can’t refuse a lady—especially such a very determined one. She’s heard of you and insisted on having your opinion, though I told her again and again that there was nothing you could do that I hadn’t already done. Why, bless my soul, here’s her carriage at the door now.”

He had barely spoken when there burst into the room one of the loveliest young women I have ever seen. Her violet eyes were shining, her lips parted, a pink flush in her cheeks; all trace of her natural reserve swept away by her overwhelming excitement and anxiety.

“Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!” she cried, glancing from one to the other of us and finally, with a woman’s quick intuition, fixing on my companion. “I’m so glad you’ve come. I drove down just to tell you so. I know James didn’t do it. I know it, and I want you to begin your work knowing it too. Never let yourself doubt that. We’ve known each other since we were little children, and I know his faults as no one else does; but he’s too tender-hearted to hurt a fly. Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him.”

“I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner,” said Sherlock Holmes. “You may rely on my doing everything I can.”

“But you’ve read the evidence. You’ve formed some opinion? Don’t you see some loophole, some flaw? Don’t you yourself think he’s innocent?”

“I think it is very probable.”

“There, you see!” she cried, throwing back her head and looking defiantly at Lestrade. “You hear? He gives me hope