“I will, Miss Turner.”

“I have to go home now. Father is very ill, and he misses me terribly when I leave him. Good-bye, and God help you in what you’re trying to do.” She rushed out of the room as impulsively as she had entered it, and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattling away down the street.

“I’m ashamed of you, Holmes,” said Lestrade stiffly, after a few minutes of silence. “Why raise hopes you’re certain to crush? I’m not exactly soft-hearted, but I call that cruel.”

“I believe I see how to clear James McCarthy,” said Holmes. “Do you have an order to see him in prison?”

“Yes, but it’s only for you and me.”

“Then I’ll reconsider my decision about going out. We still have time to catch a train to Hereford and see him tonight?”

“Plenty.”

“Then let’s do it. Watson, I’m afraid you’ll find it very dull, but I’ll only be gone a couple of hours.”

I walked down to the station with them, then wandered through the streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel, where I lay on the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel. The flimsy little plot was so thin compared to the deep mystery we were groping through that my attention kept drifting from the story back to the case, until at last I flung the book across the room and gave myself up entirely to thinking over the day’s events.

If this unhappy young man’s story was absolutely true, then what hellish thing—what utterly unforeseen and extraordinary calamity—could have happened between the moment he left his father and the moment when, drawn back by his screams, he rushed into the clearing? It was something terrible and deadly. What could it have been? Might the nature of the injuries suggest something to my medical instincts?

I rang for the waiter and asked for the weekly county paper, which carried a verbatim report of the inquest. In the surgeon’s deposition it was stated that the back third of the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon. I marked the spot on my own head. Clearly, such a blow must have been struck from behind. That told somewhat in favour of the accused, since when they were seen quarrelling they were face to face. Still, it did not count for very much, for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell. Even so, it might be worth drawing Holmes’s attention to it.

Then there was the strange dying reference to a “rat.” What could that mean? It could hardly be delirium. A man dying from a sudden blow does not usually become delirious. No, it was more likely an attempt to explain how he met his fate. But what could it indicate? I racked my brains for some possible explanation.

And then there was the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy. If that was true, the murderer must have dropped some part of his clothing—presumably his overcoat—while fleeing, and then had the nerve to come back and pick it up at the very moment when the son was kneeling with his back turned, not a dozen paces away. What a web of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was! I could not be surprised at Lestrade’s opinion, and yet I had such faith in Sherlock Holmes’s insight that I could not lose hope, especially as every new fact seemed only to strengthen his conviction of young McCarthy’s innocence.

It was late when Sherlock Holmes returned. He came back alone, for Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.

“The barometer is still very high,” he remarked as he sat down. “It’s important that it doesn’t rain before we can go over the ground. On the other hand, a man ought to be at his sharpest for such delicate work, and I didn’t want to tackle it worn out from a long journey. I’ve seen young McCarthy.”

“And what did you learn from him?”

“Nothing.”

“He could shed no light at all?”

“None. At one time I was inclined to think he knew who had done it and was shielding him or her, but I’m now convinced he’s as puzzled as anyone. He’s not a very quick-witted lad, though he’s good-looking and, I should say, sound at heart.”

“I can’t admire his taste,” I remarked, “if it’s really true that he was unwilling to marry such a charming young lady as Miss Turner.”

“Ah, there hangs a rather painful story. The fellow is madly—insanely—in love with her, but about two years ago, when he was only a boy and before he really knew her—for she’d been away for five years at boarding school—what does the idiot do but fall into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office? No one knows a word of it, but you can imagine how maddening it must be for him to be reproached for not doing what he’d give his very eyes to do, yet knows to be absolutely impossible. It was a fit of sheer frenzy of that kind which made him throw his hands into the air when his father, in their last interview, was goading him to propose to Miss Turner.

“On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself, and his father, who by all accounts was a very hard man, would have cast him off completely if he had known the truth. It was with this barmaid wife that he spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father had no idea where he was. Note that point. It’s important. Still