Lestrade laughed. “I’m afraid I’m still a skeptic,” he said. “Theories are all very well, but we have to convince a hard-headed British jury.”

“We shall see,” Holmes replied calmly. “You follow your method, and I’ll follow mine. I’ll be busy this afternoon, and I’ll probably be back in London by the evening train.”

“And leave your case unfinished?”

“No—finished.”

“But the mystery?”

“It’s solved.”

“Who was the criminal, then?”

“The gentleman I described.”

“But who is he?”

“Surely that can’t be hard to find out. This isn’t exactly a crowded neighborhood.”

Lestrade shrugged. “I’m a practical man,” he said, “and I really can’t go tramping around the countryside looking for a left-handed gentleman with a bad leg. I’d be the laughing-stock of Scotland Yard.”

“As you wish,” said Holmes quietly. “I’ve given you your chance. Here are your lodgings. Good-bye. I’ll drop you a line before I leave.”

After leaving Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where lunch was already on the table. Holmes sat in silence, lost in thought, his face drawn and troubled, like a man caught in a difficult dilemma.

“Look here, Watson,” he said when the table had been cleared, “sit down in this chair and let me preach to you for a bit. I’m not quite sure what to do, and I’d value your advice. Light a cigar and let me explain.”

“Please do.”

“Well then, when we consider this case, there are two points in young McCarthy’s story that struck us both at once—though they inclined me in his favor and you against him. One is that his father, according to him, called out ‘Cooee!’ before he saw him. The other is that strange dying reference to a rat. He mumbled several words, you understand, but that was all the son caught. Our investigation must start from those two points, and we’ll begin by assuming that what the boy says is absolutely true.”

“What about this ‘Cooee!’ then?”

“Obviously it couldn’t have been meant for the son. As far as the father knew, the son was in Bristol. It was pure chance he was within earshot. The ‘Cooee!’ was meant to attract the person he had arranged to meet. But ‘Cooee’ is a distinctly Australian cry, used between Australians. So there’s a strong presumption that the person McCarthy expected to meet at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia.”

“And the rat?”

Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and smoothed it out on the table. “This is a map of the colony of Victoria,” he said. “I wired to Bristol for it last night.” He covered part of the map with his hand. “What do you read?”

“ARAT,” I read.

“And now?” He lifted his hand.

“BALLARAT.”

“Exactly. That was the word the man tried to say, of which his son only heard the last two syllables. He was trying to say the name of his murderer: So-and-so, of Ballarat.”

“It’s astonishing!” I cried.

“It’s obvious. And now you see I had narrowed the field considerably. The possession of a grey garment was a third point which, assuming the son’s statement to be correct, was certain. We had moved from mere vagueness to a clear picture: an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak.”

“Certainly.”

“And one who knew the district well, because the pool can only be reached either through the farm or through the estate, and strangers would hardly wander there by accident.”

“Quite so.”

“Then came our expedition today. By examining the ground I picked up the little details I reported to that imbecile Lestrade about the criminal’s appearance.”

“But how did you get them?”

“You know my method. It’s based on observing trifles.”

“His height, I know, you could roughly judge from the length of his stride. His boots, too, from their tracks.”

“Yes, they were unusual boots.”

“But his limp?”

“The impression of his right foot was always fainter than his left. He put less weight on it. Why? Because he limped—he was lame.”

“But his being left-handed?”

“You yourself were struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest. The blow was struck from immediately behind, yet it fell on the left side. How can that be unless it was delivered by a left-handed man? He had been standing behind that tree during the conversation between father and son. He had even smoked there. I found cigar ash, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes allows me to identify as that of an Indian cigar. As you know, I’ve paid some attention to the subject and written a short monograph on the ashes of 140 different kinds of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco. Having found the ash, I looked around and discovered the stump among the moss where he had flicked it. It was an Indian cigar, of the type rolled in Rotterdam.”

“And the cigar holder?”

“I could see the end had not been in his mouth. Therefore he used a holder. The tip had been cut off, not bitten, but the cut wasn’t clean, so I inferred a blunt penknife.”

“Holmes,” I said, “you’ve drawn a net around this man from which he can’t escape, and you’ve saved an innocent life as surely as if you’d cut the rope from his neck. I see where all this leads. The culprit is—”

“Mr. John Turner,” announced the hotel waiter, opening the door of our sitting room and ushering in