“Don’t lose a single moment. And above all, take care of yourself in the meantime, because I don’t think there can be any doubt that you’re in very real and immediate danger. How are you getting back?”

“By train from Waterloo.”

“It’s not yet nine. The streets will be crowded, so I hope you’ll be safe. Even so, you can’t be too careful.”

“I’m armed.”

“Good. Tomorrow I’ll begin work on your case.”

“I’ll see you at Horsham, then?”

“No. Your secret lies in London. That’s where I’ll look for it.”

“Then I’ll come to see you in a day or two, with news about the box and the papers. I’ll follow your advice in every detail.”

He shook hands with us and took his leave. Outside, the wind still howled, and the rain splashed and rattled against the windows. This strange, wild story seemed to have blown in on us out of the raging elements—like a strip of seaweed flung up in a gale—and now to have been drawn back into them once more.

Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, his head bent forward, his eyes fixed on the red glow of the fire. Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke rings chase one another up to the ceiling.

“I think, Watson,” he said at last, “that of all our cases we’ve had none more fantastic than this.”

“Except, perhaps, The Sign of Four.”

“Well, yes. Except, perhaps, that. And yet this John Openshaw seems to me to be walking in even greater danger than the Sholtos ever did.”

“But have you,” I asked, “formed any definite idea of what these dangers are?”

“There can be no question as to their nature,” he replied.

“Then what are they? Who is this K.K.K., and why is he hunting down this unfortunate family?”

Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and rested his elbows on the arms of his chair, his fingertips pressed together. “The ideal reasoner,” he said, “once shown a single fact in all its bearings, would deduce from it not only the entire chain of events that led up to it, but also all the results that will follow from it. Just as Cuvier could correctly describe an entire animal from the study of a single bone, so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a chain of incidents should be able to state all the other links, both before and after, with accuracy. We have not yet fully grasped what pure reason alone can achieve. Problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who tried to solve them by relying on their senses. But to carry the art to its highest point, the reasoner must be able to make use of every fact that has ever come to his knowledge; and that, as you will readily see, implies a possession of all knowledge—which, even in these days of free education and encyclopedias, is a rather rare accomplishment. It is not impossible, however, for a man to possess all the knowledge likely to be useful to him in his work, and that is what I have tried to do in my own case. If I remember correctly, you once, in the early days of our friendship, defined my limits in a very precise way.”

“Yes,” I answered, laughing. “It was a curious document. Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember. Botany variable, geology profound as far as mud-stains from any district within fifty miles of London were concerned, chemistry eccentric, anatomy unsystematic, sensational literature and criminal records unique; violinist, boxer, swordsman, lawyer, and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco. Those, I think, were the main points of my analysis.”

Holmes grinned at the last item. “Well,” he said, “I say now, as I said then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked only with the furniture he’s likely to use, and the rest he can store away in the lumber-room of his library, where he can fetch it if he needs it. Now, for a case like the one that’s been laid before us tonight, we certainly need to muster all our resources. Be so good as to hand me volume K of the American Encyclopedia from the shelf beside you. Thank you. Now let’s consider the situation and see what can be deduced from it.

“In the first place, we can start with a strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had a very powerful reason for leaving America. Men of his age do not lightly change all their habits and willingly exchange the delightful climate of Florida for the lonely life of an English provincial town. His extreme love of solitude in England suggests that he was afraid of someone or something, so we may assume, as a working hypothesis, that it was fear of someone or something that drove him from America. As to what he feared, we can only deduce that by considering the threatening letters received by him and by those who came after him. Did you notice the postmarks on those letters?”

“The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third from London.”

“From East London. What do you deduce from that?”

“They’re all seaports. That the writer was on board a ship.”

“Excellent. We already have a clue. There can be no doubt that the probability—the strong probability—is that the writer was on a ship. And now let’s consider another point. In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks passed between the threat and its fulfilment; in Dundee, it was only three or four days. Does that suggest anything to you?”

“A greater distance to travel.”

“But the letter