“And who is this Captain Calhoun?”

“The head of the gang. I’ll get the others, but he comes first.”

“How did you track it down, then?”

He pulled a large sheet of paper from his pocket, covered with dates and names.

“I’ve spent the whole day,” he said, “going through Lloyd’s registers and old newspaper files, tracing the later history of every ship that touched at Pondicherry in January and February of ’83. There were thirty-six vessels of decent tonnage reported there in those months. One of them, the Lone Star, caught my eye at once, because although she was listed as clearing from London, her name is that of one of the states of the Union.”

“Texas, I think.”

“I wasn’t sure then and I’m not sure now which one; but I knew the ship had to be of American origin.”

“And then?”

“I checked the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque Lone Star was there in January ’85, my suspicion became certainty. I then inquired what vessels are currently lying in the Port of London.”

“Yes?”

“The Lone Star arrived here last week. I went down to the Albert Dock and found she’d been taken downriver on the early tide this morning, homeward bound for Savannah. I wired Gravesend and learned she had already passed some time before, and with the wind in the east I’ve no doubt she’s now past the Goodwins and not far from the Isle of Wight.”

“What will you do, then?”

“Oh, I’ve got my hand on him. He and the two mates are, as I’ve learned, the only American-born men on the ship. The rest are Finns and Germans. I also know that all three of them were off the ship last night. I had that from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo. By the time their sailing ship reaches Savannah, the mail boat will have carried this letter, and the cable will have informed the Savannah police that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here on a charge of murder.”

But even the best-laid human plans have their flaw, and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips that would have shown them that someone as cunning and as relentless as themselves was on their trail. The equinoctial gales were very long and very violent that year. We waited a long time for news of the Lone Star of Savannah, but none ever came. At last we heard that somewhere far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boat had been seen tossing in the trough of a wave, with the letters “L. S.” carved upon it—and that is all we shall ever know of the fate of the Lone Star.