“Holmes!” I whispered. “What on earth are you doing in this place?”

“Keep your voice down,” he replied. “I have excellent ears. If you’d be so kind as to get rid of that drunken friend of yours, I’d be very glad to have a word with you.”

“I’ve got a cab outside.”

“Then send him home in it. You can trust him safely; he looks far too limp to get into any trouble. I’d also suggest you send a note by the cabman to your wife, telling her you’ve thrown in your lot with me. If you wait outside, I’ll join you in five minutes.”

It was hard to refuse Sherlock Holmes anything; his requests were always so precise, and delivered with such quiet authority. Still, I felt that once Whitney was safely shut in the cab, my task was essentially done; and beyond that, I could wish for nothing better than to be involved with my friend in one of those strange adventures that were his normal way of life. Within a few minutes I had written my note, settled Whitney’s bill, guided him out to the cab, and watched it roll off into the darkness. Very soon after, a bent, shabby figure emerged from the opium den, and I found myself walking down the street beside Sherlock Holmes. For two streets he shuffled along, back hunched, steps uncertain. Then, after a quick glance around, he straightened to his full height and broke into a hearty laugh.

“I suppose, Watson,” he said, “you imagine I’ve added opium-smoking to cocaine injections and all the other little weaknesses on which you’ve favoured me with your medical opinions.”

“I was certainly surprised to find you there.”

“No more than I was to find you.”

“I came looking for a friend.”

“And I for an enemy.”

“An enemy?”

“Yes—one of my natural enemies, or shall I say, my natural prey. In short, Watson, I’m in the middle of a very remarkable investigation, and I hoped to pick up a clue in the rambling nonsense of those sots, as I’ve done before. If I’d been recognised in that den, my life wouldn’t have been worth an hour’s purchase. I’ve used the place before for my own purposes, and the scoundrelly Lascar who runs it has sworn to have his revenge on me. There’s a trapdoor at the back of that building, near the corner of Paul’s Wharf, that could tell some strange tales about what’s passed through it on moonless nights.”

“What! You don’t mean bodies?”

“Oh yes, bodies, Watson. We’d be rich men if we had a thousand pounds for every poor devil who’s been done to death in that den. It’s the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear Neville St. Clair has gone into it never to come out again. But our own trap should be here.” He put his two forefingers between his teeth and gave a piercing whistle—a signal answered by a similar whistle in the distance, followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hooves.

“Now, Watson,” said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart came racing out of the gloom, its side-lanterns throwing two golden tunnels of light ahead of it, “you’ll come with me, won’t you?”

“If I can be of any use.”

“Oh, a reliable comrade is always useful—and a chronicler even more so. My room at The Cedars has two beds.”

“The Cedars?”

“Yes—that’s Mr. St. Clair’s house. I’m staying there while I conduct the investigation.”

“Where is it, then?”

“Near Lee, in Kent. We’ve a seven-mile drive ahead of us.”

“But I’m completely in the dark.”

“Of course you are. You’ll know all about it soon enough. Jump up. All right, John, we won’t need you. Here’s half a crown. Expect me tomorrow around eleven. Give her her head. So long!”

He flicked the horse with his whip, and we shot off through an endless succession of dark, deserted streets that gradually widened until we were flying over a broad, balustraded bridge, the murky river sliding sluggishly beneath us. Beyond lay another dreary wilderness of brick and stone, its silence broken only by the heavy, measured tread of a policeman, or the songs and shouts of some belated band of revellers. A dull mass of cloud was drifting slowly across the sky, and here and there a star or two twinkled faintly through the breaks. Holmes drove in silence, head sunk on his chest, with the air of a man deep in thought, while I sat beside him, eager to learn what new case could be taxing his powers so severely, yet reluctant to disturb the flow of his reflections. We had driven several miles and were just reaching the outer fringe of suburban villas when he gave himself a shake, shrugged his shoulders, and lit his pipe with the air of a man who has decided he is acting for the best.

“You have a splendid gift for silence, Watson,” he said. “It makes you quite invaluable as a companion. Upon my word, it’s a great thing for me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not particularly pleasant. I was wondering what I should say to this dear little woman tonight when she meets me at the door.”

“You forget that I know nothing about it.”

“I’ll just have time to tell you the facts before we reach Lee. It all seems absurdly simple, and yet somehow I can’t get anything to take hold of. There’s plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can’t get the end of it into my fingers. Now, I’ll lay out the