And so it did, though what they found on the mudbank was not quite what they had feared. It was Neville St. Clair’s coat, not Neville St. Clair himself, that lay exposed as the tide went out. And what do you think they found in the pockets?”

“I can’t imagine.”

“No, I don’t suppose you could. Every pocket was crammed with pennies and halfpennies—421 pennies and 270 halfpennies. No wonder the coat hadn’t been swept away by the tide. A human body is another matter. There’s a violent eddy between the wharf and the house. It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had stayed where it was while the naked body was sucked away into the river.”

“But I understood that all the other clothes were found in the room. Would the body have been wearing only a coat?”

“No, but the facts could still be made to fit—at least on the surface. Suppose this man Boone had pushed Neville St. Clair through the window. No human eye could have seen the act. What would he do then? It would immediately occur to him that he must get rid of the incriminating clothes. He would grab the coat and be on the point of throwing it out when it would strike him that it would float, not sink. He has very little time, for he has heard the struggle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has already been warned by his Lascar accomplice that the police are hurrying up the street. There isn’t a second to lose. He dashes to some secret stash where he has hoarded the proceeds of his begging, and he stuffs all the coins he can lay his hands on into the pockets to make sure the coat will sink. He throws it out, and would have done the same with the other garments if he had not heard the rush of feet below and only just had time to close the window before the police appeared.”

“It certainly sounds plausible.”

“Well, we’ll treat it as a working hypothesis until we find a better one. Boone, as I told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but nothing could be shown against him from before this. He had for years been known as a professional beggar, but his life seemed to have been very quiet and harmless. That’s where the matter stands at present, and the questions that have to be answered—what Neville St. Clair was doing in the opium den, what happened to him there, where he is now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his disappearance—are all as far from solution as ever. I must admit I can’t recall any case in my experience that looked so simple at first glance and yet presented such difficulties.”

While Sherlock Holmes had been recounting this strange chain of events, we had been spinning through the outskirts of the great city until the last scattered houses were left behind and we were rattling along with country hedges on either side of us. Just as he finished, however, we drove through two straggling villages, where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.

“We’re on the outskirts of Lee,” said my companion. “We’ve touched three English counties in this short drive—starting in Middlesex, cutting across a corner of Surrey, and ending in Kent. See that light among the trees? That’s The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I’ve little doubt, caught the sound of our horse’s hooves.”

“But why aren’t you running the case from Baker Street?” I asked.

“Because there are many inquiries that have to be made out here. Mrs. St. Clair has very kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and you may be sure she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague. I hate meeting her, Watson, when I have no news of her husband. Here we are. Whoa there, whoa!”

We had pulled up in front of a large villa standing in its own grounds. A stable-boy ran out to the horse’s head, and, jumping down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel drive that led to the house. As we approached, the door flew open and a small, fair-haired woman stood in the doorway, dressed in some light mousseline de soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists. She stood outlined against the flood of light, one hand on the door, the other half-raised in her eagerness, her body slightly bent forward, her head and face thrust out, eyes shining and lips parted—a living question.

“Well?” she cried. “Well?” Then, seeing there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw my companion shake his head and shrug his shoulders.

“No good news?”

“None.”

“No bad?”

“No.”

“Thank God for that. But come in. You must be tired; you’ve had a long day.”

“This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been of the greatest help to me in several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation.”

“I’m very glad to see you,” she said, pressing my hand warmly. “You will, I’m sure, forgive anything that may be lacking in our arrangements when you consider the blow that has come so suddenly upon us.”

“My dear madam,” I said, “I’m an old campaigner, and even if I weren’t, it’s quite clear that no apology is needed. If I can be of any help, either to you or to my friend here, I shall be very glad.”

“Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady, as we entered a brightly lit dining