“You’re joking, Holmes.”

“Not in the slightest. Can it really be that even now, when I lay the conclusions before you, you still can’t see how I reached them?”

“I’ve no doubt I’m being very dense, but I must admit I can’t follow you. For instance, how did you deduce that this man is intelligent?”

In answer, Holmes clapped the hat onto his own head. It dropped down over his forehead and settled on the bridge of his nose.

“It’s a matter of cubic capacity,” he said. “A man with a head this large must have something in it.”

“And the decline in his fortunes?”

“This hat is three years old. These flat brims, curled at the edge, came in then. It’s a hat of the very best quality. Look at the ribbed silk band and the fine lining. If this man could afford such an expensive hat three years ago and hasn’t bought another since, then he has certainly fallen on hard times.”

“That’s clear enough, I admit. But what about his foresight—and his moral decline?”

Sherlock Holmes laughed.

“Here’s the foresight,” he said, putting his finger on the little disc and loop of the hat-guard. “These are never sold attached to hats. If this man ordered one, it shows a certain amount of foresight, since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind. But since we see that the elastic is broken and he hasn’t bothered to replace it, it’s obvious he has less foresight now than he once had, which is clear evidence of a weakening character. On the other hand, he has tried to hide some of these stains on the felt by dabbing them with ink, which shows he hasn’t entirely lost his self-respect.”

“Your reasoning is certainly plausible.”

“The further points—that he’s middle-aged, that his hair is graying, that it’s been recently cut, and that he uses lime cream—can all be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining. Through the lens you can see a large number of hair-ends, cleanly cut by the barber’s scissors. They’re all slightly sticky, and there’s a distinct smell of lime cream. This dust, you’ll notice, isn’t the gritty grey dust of the street, but the soft brown dust of a house, showing that the hat has been hung up indoors most of the time, while the marks of moisture on the inside are proof positive that the wearer sweats very freely and therefore can hardly be in the best of training.”

“But his wife—you said she’d stopped loving him.”

“This hat hasn’t been brushed for weeks. When I see you, my dear Watson, with a week’s worth of dust on your hat, and when your wife lets you go out in such a state, I’ll fear that you too have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’s affection.”

“But he might be a bachelor.”

“No. He was taking the goose home as a peace offering to his wife. Remember the card tied to the bird’s leg.”

“You have an answer for everything. But how on earth do you deduce that there’s no gas laid on in his house?”

“One tallow stain, or even two, might be chance; but when I see no fewer than five, I think there can be little doubt that the man must be in frequent contact with burning tallow—probably walks upstairs at night with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other. In any case, he never got tallow stains from a gas jet. Are you satisfied?”

“Well, it’s very ingenious,” I said, laughing, “but since, as you said yourself just now, there’s been no crime committed and no harm done except the loss of a goose, all this seems rather a waste of energy.”

Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply when the door flew open and Peterson, the commissionaire, burst into the room, cheeks flushed and wearing the dazed look of a man stunned by astonishment.

“The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!” he gasped.

“Eh? What about it, then? Has it come back to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?” Holmes twisted around on the sofa to get a better view of the man’s excited face.

“Look here, sir! Look what my wife found in its crop!” He held out his hand and showed, lying in the centre of his palm, a brilliantly sparkling blue stone, a little smaller than a bean, but of such purity and fire that it glittered like a point of electric light in the dark hollow of his hand.

Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.

“Good Lord, Peterson!” he said. “This is treasure trove indeed. I suppose you know what you’ve got there?”

“A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts into glass as if it were putty.”

“It’s more than a precious stone. It is the precious stone.”

“Not the Countess of Morcar’s blue carbuncle!” I burst out.

“Exactly. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing I’ve read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately. It’s absolutely unique, and its value can only be guessed at, but the reward offered—one thousand pounds—is certainly not a twentieth of its market price.”

“A thousand pounds! Good Lord above!” The commissionaire dropped into a chair and stared from one of us to the other.

“That’s the reward, and I have reason to know there are sentimental considerations in the background that would persuade the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could only recover the gem.”

“It was lost, if I remember correctly, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,” I remarked.

“Exactly—on December 22