“I once had a friend named Maudsley who went bad and has just finished a stretch in Pentonville. One day I ran into him, and he started talking about thieves’ tricks and how they get rid of what they steal. I knew he’d be straight with me, because I knew one or two things about him myself, so I decided to go straight on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into my confidence. He’d show me how to turn the stone into money. But how was I to get to him safely? I remembered the torment I’d gone through just getting from the hotel. At any moment I might be grabbed and searched, and there the stone would be, in my waistcoat pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time, watching the geese waddling around my feet, when suddenly an idea came to me that showed me how I could beat the best detective that ever lived.

“My sister had told me weeks before that I could have my pick of her geese as a Christmas present, and I knew she always kept her word. I’d take my goose now, and inside it I’d carry my stone to Kilburn. There was a little shed in the yard, and behind it I drove one of the birds—a big fine one, white, with a barred tail. I grabbed it, pried its beak open, and shoved the stone down its throat as far as my finger would reach. The bird gulped, and I felt the stone slide down its gullet into its crop. But the creature flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to see what was going on. As I turned to speak to her, the brute broke loose and fluttered back among the others.

“‘What on earth were you doing with that bird, Jem?’ she says.

“‘Well,’ I said, ‘you said you’d give me one for Christmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.’

“‘Oh,’ she says, ‘we’ve already put yours aside—“Jem’s bird,” we call it. It’s that big white one over there. There’s twenty-six of them: one for you, one for us, and two dozen for the market.’

“‘Thanks, Maggie,’ I said, ‘but if it’s all the same to you, I’d rather have the one I was handling just now.’

“‘The other’s a good three pounds heavier,’ she said, ‘and we fattened it specially for you.’

“‘Never mind. I’ll have the other, and I’ll take it now,’ I said.

“‘Oh, just as you like,’ she said, a bit put out. ‘Which one do you want, then?’

“‘That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.’

“‘Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.’

“So I did as she said, Mr. Holmes, and carried the bird all the way to Kilburn. I told my pal what I’d done, for he was the sort of man you could tell a thing like that to. He laughed till he choked, and then we got a knife and opened the goose. My heart turned to water—there was no sign of the stone, and I knew some terrible mistake had been made. I left the bird, ran back to my sister’s, and rushed into the backyard. There wasn’t a bird in sight.

“‘Where are they all, Maggie?’ I shouted.

“‘Gone to the dealer’s, Jem.’

“‘Which dealer?’

“‘Breckinridge, in Covent Garden.’

“‘But was there another with a barred tail?’ I asked. ‘Just like the one I chose?’

“‘Yes, Jem, there were two with barred tails, and I could never tell them apart.’

“Well, then I saw it all, of course, and I ran as fast as my legs would carry me to this Breckinridge. But he’d sold the lot at once, and he wouldn’t tell me a single word about where they’d gone. You heard him yourself tonight. He’s always answered me like that. My sister thinks I’m going mad. Sometimes I think so myself. And now—now I’m a branded thief, without ever having touched the wealth I sold my good name for. God help me! God help me!”

He broke down into violent sobbing, burying his face in his hands.

There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the steady tapping of Sherlock Holmes’s fingertips on the edge of the table. Then my friend stood up and flung open the door.

“Get out,” he said.

“What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!”

“No more words. Get out.”

And no more words were needed. There was a rush, a clatter on the stairs, a door slammed, and then the sharp rattle of running footsteps in the street.

“After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching up for his clay pipe, “the police don’t hire me to make up for their shortcomings. If Horner were in danger it would be different; but this fellow won’t testify against him, and the case will collapse. I suppose I’m compounding a felony, but it’s just possible I’m saving a soul. This man won’t go wrong again; he’s far too badly frightened. Send him to prison now and you turn him into a jailbird for life. Besides, it’s the season of forgiveness. Chance has dropped a most singular and whimsical little problem in our path, and solving it is reward enough. If you’d be so good as to ring the bell, Doctor, we’ll begin another investigation—in which, again, a bird will play the leading part.”