“One moment,” said Holmes. “Are you certain about this whistle and the metallic sound? Could you swear to it?”

“That was exactly what the county coroner asked me at the inquest. I am strongly convinced that I heard it, and yet, with the gale crashing and the old house creaking, I may possibly have been mistaken.”

“Was your sister dressed?”

“No, she was in her nightgown. In her right hand they found the burned-out stump of a match, and in her left a matchbox.”

“Which shows she struck a light and looked around her when the alarm came. That is important. And what conclusion did the coroner reach?”

“He investigated the case very carefully, because Dr. Roylott’s behavior had long been notorious in the county, but he couldn’t find any satisfactory cause of death. My evidence showed that the door had been fastened on the inside, and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were secured every night. The walls were carefully sounded and proved to be quite solid all around, and the floor was thoroughly examined with the same result. The chimney is wide, but it’s blocked by four large iron staples. It is certain, therefore, that my sister was completely alone when she died. Besides, there were no marks of violence on her.”

“What about poison?”

“The doctors tested for it, but found nothing.”

“Then what do you think this unfortunate lady died of?”

“I believe she died of sheer terror and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine.”

“Were there gypsies in the plantation at the time?”

“Yes, there are almost always some there.”

“Ah. And what did you make of her reference to a band—a speckled band?”

“Sometimes I’ve thought it was just the wild talk of delirium; sometimes that it might have referred to some band of people—perhaps those very gypsies in the plantation. I don’t know whether the spotted handkerchiefs that so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange word she used.”

Holmes shook his head like a man far from satisfied.

“These are very deep waters,” he said. “Please go on with your story.”

“Two years have passed since then, and until recently my life has been lonelier than ever. A month ago, however, a dear friend whom I have known for many years did me the honor of asking me to marry him. His name is Armitage—Percy Armitage—the second son of Mr. Armitage of Crane Water, near Reading. My stepfather has raised no objection to the match, and we are to be married in the spring. Two days ago some repairs were begun in the west wing of the house, and a hole was knocked through the wall of my bedroom, so I had to move into the room in which my sister died, and sleep in the very bed she used. Imagine, then, my horror when last night, as I lay awake thinking about her terrible fate, I suddenly heard, in the stillness of the night, the low whistle that had been the herald of her death. I jumped up and lit the lamp, but there was nothing to be seen in the room. I was too shaken to go back to bed, so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped out, got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn opposite, and drove to Leatherhead, from where I came on here this morning with the single purpose of seeing you and asking your advice.”

“You have acted wisely,” said my friend. “But have you told me everything?”

“Yes, everything.”

“Miss Roylott, you have not. You are shielding your stepfather.”

“Why—what do you mean?”

In answer, Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace that edged the hand resting on our visitor’s knee. Five small, livid spots—the marks of four fingers and a thumb—were printed on the white wrist.

“You have been cruelly used,” said Holmes.

The lady flushed deeply and covered her injured wrist. “He is a hard man,” she said, “and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength.”

There was a long silence, during which Holmes rested his chin on his hands and stared into the crackling fire.

“This is a very serious business,” he said at last. “There are a thousand details I should like to know before deciding on our course of action. Yet we haven’t a moment to lose. If we came to Stoke Moran today, would it be possible for us to look over these rooms without your stepfather knowing?”

“As it happens, he mentioned that he was coming into town today on some very important business. It’s likely he’ll be away all day, and there would be nothing to disturb you. We have a housekeeper now, but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way.”

“Excellent. You don’t object to this trip, Watson?”

“Not at all.”

“Then we shall both come. What are you going to do yourself?”

“I have one or two things I’d like to do now that I’m in town. But I’ll return by the twelve o’clock train, so I’ll be there in time for your arrival.”

“And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I also have a few small business matters to attend to. Won’t you stay and have breakfast?”

“No, I must go. My heart is already lighter now that I’ve shared my trouble with you. I shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room.

“And what do you make of it all, Watson?” asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.

“It seems to me a very dark and sinister affair.”