“Exactly. But I’m sleeping in the middle room now.”

“While the alterations are going on, if I understand you. By the way, there doesn’t seem to be any urgent need for repairs to that end wall.”

“There weren’t any. I believe it was just an excuse to move me out of my room.”

“Ah! That’s suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open. There are windows in it, of course?”

“Yes, but they’re very small. Too narrow for anyone to get through.”

“As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms couldn’t be reached from that side. Now, would you be so kind as to go into your room and bar your shutters?”

Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after carefully examining them from the open window, tried every possible way to force the shutters, but without success. There was no gap through which a knife could be slipped to lift the bar. Then, with his lens, he examined the hinges, but they were solid iron, firmly built into the heavy stonework.

“Hmm!” he said, scratching his chin in some perplexity. “My theory certainly runs into some difficulties. No one could get past these shutters if they were bolted. Well, let’s see if the inside sheds any light on the matter.”

A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened. Holmes declined to examine the third room, so we went straight to the second—the one where Miss Stoner now slept, and where her sister had met her death. It was a homely little room, with a low ceiling and a wide, gaping fireplace, in the style of old country houses. A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner, a narrow bed with a white counterpane in another, and a dressing table to the left of the window. These pieces, with two small wicker chairs, were all the furniture in the room, apart from a square of Wilton carpet in the centre. The boards around it and the panelling on the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old and discoloured that they might date from the original building of the house. Holmes pulled one of the chairs into a corner and sat in silence, his eyes travelling slowly round and round, up and down, taking in every detail of the room.

“Where does that bell connect to?” he asked at last, pointing to a thick bell-rope that hung beside the bed, its tassel actually lying on the pillow.

“It goes to the housekeeper’s room.”

“It looks newer than the other things.”

“Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago.”

“Your sister asked for it, I suppose?”

“No, I never heard of her using it. We always used to get what we wanted for ourselves.”

“Indeed. It seems unnecessary to put such a nice bell-pull there. Excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself about this floor.”

He threw himself down on his face with his lens in his hand and crawled quickly back and forth, examining the cracks between the boards minutely. Then he did the same with the woodwork of the panelling. Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time staring at it and running his eye up and down the wall. At last he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a sharp tug.

“Why, it’s a dummy,” he said.

“It won’t ring?”

“No. It’s not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting. You can see now that it’s fastened to a hook just above the little opening for the ventilator.”

“How ridiculous! I never noticed that before.”

“Very strange,” muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope. “There are one or two very peculiar points about this room. For example, what kind of fool of a builder would open a ventilator into another room when, with the same effort, he could have opened it to the outside air?”

“That’s also quite modern,” said the lady.

“Done about the same time as the bell-rope?” remarked Holmes.

“Yes, there were several little changes made about then.”

“They seem to have been of a most interesting kind—dummy bell-ropes and ventilators that don’t ventilate. With your permission, Miss Stoner, we’ll now carry our investigation into the inner room.”

Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s bedroom was larger than his stepdaughter’s, but just as plainly furnished. A camp-bed, a small wooden shelf full of books, mostly technical, an armchair beside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a round table, and a large iron safe were the main things that met the eye. Holmes walked slowly around and examined each one of them with the keenest interest.

“What’s in here?” he asked, tapping the safe.

“My stepfather’s business papers.”

“Oh? You’ve seen inside, then?”

“Only once, years ago. I remember it was full of papers.”

“There isn’t a cat in it, for example?”

“No. What a strange idea!”

“Well, look at this.” He picked up a small saucer of milk that stood on top of it.

“No, we don’t keep a cat. But there is a cheetah and a baboon.”

“Ah yes, of course. Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a saucer of milk doesn’t go very far toward satisfying it, I imagine. There’s one point I’d like to settle.”

He squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat with the greatest attention.

“Thank you. That’s quite settled,” he said at last, rising and putting his lens back in his pocket. “