“I saw it in a newspaper,” the American explained. “It gave the name and the church, but not where the lady lived.”

“Then we talked about what we should do, and Frank wanted to be completely open, but I was so ashamed of everything that I felt as if I just wanted to disappear and never see any of them again—maybe just send Pa a line to let him know I was alive. It was horrible to picture all those lords and ladies sitting around that breakfast table, waiting for me to come back. So Frank took my wedding clothes and things, tied them up in a bundle so I couldn’t be traced, and dropped them somewhere no one would ever find them. We’d probably have gone on to Paris tomorrow, if this good gentleman, Mr. Holmes, hadn’t come to see us this evening—though how he found us I really can’t imagine. He showed us, very clearly and kindly, that I was wrong and Frank was right, and that we’d be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secretive. Then he offered to give us a chance to talk to Lord St. Simon alone, so we came straight round to his rooms at once. Now, Robert, you’ve heard everything, and I’m very sorry if I’ve hurt you, and I hope you don’t think too badly of me.”

Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his stiff posture. He listened to this long story with a furrowed brow and tightly pressed lips.

“Excuse me,” he said, “but it is not my habit to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in such a public fashion.”

“So you won’t forgive me? You won’t shake my hand before I go?”

“Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure.” He held out his hand and gave a cold grasp to the one she offered him.

“I had hoped,” Holmes suggested, “that you would join us for a friendly supper.”

“I think that is asking a little too much,” his Lordship replied. “I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments, but I can hardly be expected to celebrate them. With your permission, I will now wish you all a very good night.” He gave us all a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.

“Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company,” said Sherlock Holmes. “It is always a pleasure to meet an American, Mr. Moulton, for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a king and the blundering of a minister, long ago, will not prevent our children from one day being citizens of the same world-wide nation, under a flag that quarters the Union Jack with the Stars and Stripes.”

“The case has been an interesting one,” remarked Holmes, after our visitors had left, “because it shows very clearly how simple the explanation can be for an affair that at first sight seems almost inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as the lady described them, and nothing stranger than the result when viewed, for example, by Mr. Lestrade of Scotland Yard.”

“So you weren’t at fault at all, then?”

“From the start, two facts were very obvious to me: first, that the lady had been quite willing to go through with the wedding ceremony; second, that she regretted it within a few minutes of getting home. Clearly, then, something had happened during the morning to make her change her mind. What could that something be? She couldn’t have spoken to anyone while she was out, because she was in the bridegroom’s company the whole time. Had she seen someone, then? If she had, it must have been someone from America, because she had spent so little time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone here to gain such influence over her that the mere sight of him would make her change her plans so completely. You see, by a process of elimination, we had already reached the idea that she might have seen an American. Then who could this American be, and why should he have such power over her? He might be a lover; he might be a husband. I knew her girlhood had been spent in rough surroundings and under strange conditions. That was how far I had got before I ever heard Lord St. Simon’s story. When he told us about the man in the pew, the change in the bride’s manner, the transparent trick of dropping a bouquet to get a note, her turning to her confidential maid, and her very pointed reference to ‘claim-jumping’—which, in miners’ slang, means taking possession of something to which someone else already has a prior claim—the whole situation became absolutely clear. She had gone off with a man, and that man was either a lover or a previous husband—with the odds in favour of the latter.”

“And how on earth did you find them?”

“It might have been difficult, but our friend Lestrade had information in his hands whose value he didn’t recognize. The initials were, of course, of the greatest importance, but even more valuable was knowing that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most exclusive hotels in London.”

“How did you deduce that it was exclusive?”

“From the exclusive prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry point to one of the most expensive hotels. There aren’t many in London that charge at that rate. At the second one I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I found, by inspecting the register, that Francis H. Moulton, an American gentleman, had left only the day before, and when I looked over the entries against his name, I came upon the very items I had seen on the duplicate bill. His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square,