“Holmes,” I said one morning, standing at our bay window and looking down into the street, “there’s a madman coming this way. It’s rather sad that his family lets him go out alone.”

My friend rose lazily from his armchair, slipped his hands into the pockets of his dressing gown, and looked over my shoulder. It was a bright, sharp February morning. Yesterday’s snow still lay deep on the ground, glittering in the cold winter sun. Down the middle of Baker Street it had been churned into a brown, crumbly strip by the traffic, but on either side, and piled along the edges of the pavements, it was still as white as when it fell. The grey flagstones had been swept and scraped, but they were still treacherously slippery, so there were fewer people about than usual. In fact, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming except the single gentleman whose strange behaviour had caught my eye.

He was about fifty, tall, stout, and imposing, with a large, strongly marked face and a commanding presence. He was dressed in a sombre but expensive style: black frock coat, glossy top hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet his movements were absurdly at odds with the dignity of his clothes and features, for he was running hard, with little awkward hops now and then, like a tired man who is quite unused to putting any demand on his legs. As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, wagged his head, and twisted his face into the most extraordinary grimaces.

“What on earth is the matter with him?” I asked. “He’s looking up at the house numbers.”

“I believe he’s coming here,” said Holmes, rubbing his hands.

“Here?”

“Yes. I rather think he’s coming to consult me professionally. I recognise the symptoms. Ah! Didn’t I tell you?” As he spoke, the man, panting and blowing, rushed up to our door and pulled the bell so violently that the whole house rang with the clanging.

A few moments later he was in our room, still panting, still waving his arms, but with such a fixed look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles vanished instantly, replaced by horror and pity. For a while he couldn’t get a word out. He swayed where he sat and clutched at his hair like a man driven to the very edge of his sanity. Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he began beating his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed at him and dragged him back to the middle of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the easy chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and spoke to him in the calm, soothing tones he knew so well how to use.

“You’ve come to tell me your story, haven’t you?” he said. “You’re exhausted from your haste. Please wait until you’ve recovered yourself, and then I’ll be very glad to look into any little problem you may lay before me.”

For a minute or more the man sat with his chest heaving, struggling with his emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his forehead, pressed his lips together, and turned his face towards us.

“No doubt you think I’m mad,” he said.

“I see that you’ve had some great trouble,” Holmes replied.

“God knows I have—trouble enough to unhinge my mind, it is so sudden and so terrible. Public disgrace I might have faced, though I am a man whose character has never yet been stained. Private sorrow, too, is every man’s lot. But the two together, and in such a dreadful form, have been enough to shake my very soul. And it is not only myself. The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way can be found out of this horrible affair.”

“Please compose yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “and give me a clear account of who you are and what has happened to you.”

“My name,” our visitor answered, “is probably familiar to you. I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, Threadneedle Street.”

The name was indeed well known to us as that of the senior partner in the second-largest private banking house in the City of London. What could have happened, then, to bring one of London’s foremost citizens to such a pitiable state? We waited, full of curiosity, until, with another effort, he braced himself to tell his story.

“I feel that time is important,” he said. “That is why I hurried here as soon as the police inspector suggested that I should seek your help. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and then hurried on foot, for cabs move slowly in this snow. That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little exercise. I feel better now, and I will lay the facts before you as briefly and as clearly as I can.

“It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking business it is just as important to find profitable investments for our funds as it is to increase our connections and the number of our depositors. One of our most lucrative ways of employing money is in the form of loans where the security is beyond question. We have done a great deal of this in the last few years, and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums on the security of their pictures, libraries, or silver.

“Yesterday morning I was sitting in my office at the bank when one of the clerks brought in a card. I started when I saw the name, for it was none other than—well, perhaps even to you I had better say no more than that it is a name that