“‘Listen, son,’ I said, as he stood there staring at the floor, ‘can you let me have two hundred pounds?’

‘No, I cannot,’ I snapped. ‘I’ve already been far too generous with you about money.’

‘You’ve been very kind,’ he said, ‘but I must have this money, or I’ll never be able to show my face at the club again.’

‘And that would be an excellent thing!’ I shouted.

‘Yes, but you wouldn’t have me leave it in disgrace,’ he said. ‘I couldn’t endure the shame. I have to raise the money somehow, and if you won’t give it to me, then I’ll have to find some other way.’

I was furious; it was the third time he’d asked for money that month. ‘You won’t get a penny from me!’ I cried. He bowed and left the room without another word.

When he was gone, I unlocked my desk, checked that my treasure was safe, and locked it again. Then I went round the house to make sure everything was secure—a job I usually leave to Mary, but which I thought it best to do myself that night. As I came down the stairs, I saw Mary at the side window in the hall, closing and fastening it as I approached.

‘Tell me, Dad,’ she said, looking, I thought, a little unsettled, ‘did you give Lucy, the maid, permission to go out tonight?’

‘Certainly not.’

‘She just came in by the back door. I’ve no doubt she only went to the side gate to see someone, but I don’t think it’s safe and it ought to be stopped.’

‘You must speak to her in the morning—or I will, if you’d rather. Are you sure everything is fastened?’

‘Quite sure, Dad.’

‘Then good night.’ I kissed her and went back up to my bedroom, where I was soon asleep.

I’m trying to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, that might have any bearing on the case, but I beg you to question me about anything I haven’t made clear.’

‘On the contrary, your account is remarkably clear.’

‘I’m coming now to a part of my story where I especially want to be precise. I’m not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety on my mind no doubt made me even lighter than usual. Around two in the morning, I was woken by some sound in the house. It had stopped before I was fully awake, but it left the impression that a window had been gently closed somewhere. I lay there listening with all my attention. Then, to my horror, I heard distinct footsteps, moving softly in the next room.

I slipped out of bed, my heart pounding with fear, and peered round the corner of my dressing-room door.

‘Arthur!’ I screamed. ‘You scoundrel! You thief! How dare you touch that coronet?’

The gas was turned halfway up, just as I’d left it, and there stood my unfortunate boy, wearing only his shirt and trousers, beside the light, holding the coronet in his hands. He seemed to be wrenching at it, bending it with all his strength. At my cry he dropped it and turned as white as death. I snatched it up and examined it. One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.

‘You blackguard!’ I shouted, beside myself with rage. ‘You’ve ruined it! You’ve disgraced me forever! Where are the jewels you’ve stolen?’

‘Stolen!’ he cried.

‘Yes, thief!’ I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.

‘There are none missing. There can’t be any missing,’ he said.

‘Three are missing. And you know where they are. Must I call you a liar as well as a thief? Didn’t I see you trying to tear off another piece?’

‘You’ve called me enough names,’ he said. ‘I won’t stand it any longer. I won’t say another word about this business, since you’ve chosen to insult me. I’ll leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world.’

‘You’ll leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried, half mad with grief and fury. ‘I’ll have this matter probed to the very bottom.’

‘You’ll learn nothing from me,’ he said, with a passion I’d never imagined in him. ‘If you choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.’

By now the whole house was awake, for I had raised my voice in my anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room and, at the sight of the coronet and Arthur’s face, she understood everything and, with a scream, collapsed unconscious on the floor. I sent the housemaid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once. When the inspector and a constable came into the house, Arthur, who had been standing there sullenly with his arms folded, asked me if I intended to charge him with theft. I answered that it was no longer a private matter but a public one, since the damaged coronet was national property. I was determined that the law should take its full course.

‘At least,’ he said, ‘you won’t have me arrested immediately. It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I could leave the house for five minutes.’

‘So you can escape—or perhaps hide what you’ve stolen,’ I said. Then, realising the dreadful position I was in, I begged him to remember that not only my honour, but that of someone far greater than I, was at stake, and that he was threatening to create a scandal that would shake the whole nation. He could prevent it all