The Black Swan is a well-known inn on the High Street, not far from the station, and there we found the young lady waiting for us. She had taken a private sitting-room, and our lunch was already laid out on the table.

“I’m so delighted you’ve come,” she said earnestly. “It’s so very kind of you both; I really don’t know what I should do without you. Your advice will be absolutely invaluable to me.”

“Please tell us what has happened to you.”

“I will, and I must be quick, for I promised Mr. Rucastle I’d be back before three. I got his permission to come into town this morning, though he has no idea why.”

“Let’s have everything in proper order.” Holmes stretched his long, thin legs out towards the fire and settled himself to listen.

“To begin with, I should say that, on the whole, I’ve not been actually ill-treated by Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle. It’s only fair to them to admit that. But I can’t understand them, and I don’t feel at ease about them.”

“What is it you can’t understand?”

“Their reasons for the way they behave. But I’ll tell you everything exactly as it happened. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches. It is, as he said, beautifully situated, but it isn’t beautiful in itself. It’s a big, square block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather. There are grounds around it, woods on three sides, and on the fourth a field that slopes down to the Southampton high road, which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door. The ground in front belongs to the house, but the surrounding woods are all part of Lord Southerton’s preserves. A clump of copper beeches directly in front of the hall door has given the place its name.

“My employer drove me over himself, as amiable as ever, and that evening he introduced me to his wife and the child. There was no truth, Mr. Holmes, in the theory that seemed so likely when we talked in your rooms in Baker Street. Mrs. Rucastle is not insane. I found her to be a silent, pale-faced woman, much younger than her husband—no more than thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be under forty-five. From their conversation I gathered that they have been married about seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only child by his first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia. Mr. Rucastle told me privately that the reason she left was an irrational dislike of her stepmother. As the daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can easily imagine that her position with her father’s young wife must have been uncomfortable.

“Mrs. Rucastle struck me as colourless in mind as well as in appearance. She made no particular impression on me, either good or bad. She was a nonentity. It was obvious, though, that she was passionately devoted to both her husband and her little son. Her light grey eyes wandered constantly from one to the other, noticing every small need and anticipating it if she could. He was kind to her too, in his bluff, boisterous way, and on the whole they seemed a happy couple. And yet this woman had some secret sorrow. She would often fall into deep thought, with the saddest expression on her face. More than once I’ve come upon her in tears. I’ve sometimes thought that it was the child’s disposition that weighed on her mind, for I have never met such a thoroughly spoiled and ill-natured little creature. He is small for his age, with a head quite out of proportion, far too large for his body. His whole life seems to swing between savage fits of rage and gloomy spells of sulking. Hurting anything weaker than himself appears to be his only idea of fun, and he shows remarkable ingenuity in planning the capture of mice, small birds, and insects. But I would rather not talk about the creature, Mr. Holmes, and in fact he has little to do with my story.”

“I’m glad of every detail,” my friend remarked, “whether they seem relevant to you or not.”

“I’ll try not to leave out anything important. The one unpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the look and behaviour of the servants. There are only two, a man and his wife. Toller, as he’s called, is a rough, uncouth fellow, with grizzled hair and whiskers and a constant smell of drink about him. Twice since I’ve been there he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seems to take no notice. His wife is a very tall, strong woman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and far less pleasant. They are a most disagreeable couple, but fortunately I spend most of my time in the nursery and in my own room, which are next to each other in one corner of the house.

“For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very quiet. On the third day, just after breakfast, Mrs. Rucastle came in and whispered something to her husband.

“‘Oh, yes,’ he said, turning to me, ‘we are very much obliged to you, Miss Hunter, for humoring our whims so far as to cut your hair. I assure you it hasn’t taken away the tiniest fraction from your good looks. We shall now see how the electric-blue dress suits you. You’ll find it laid out on the bed in your room, and if