The Adventurers lived by their swords.

“I know you,” muttered the Nemedian. “You’re Conan, king of Aquilonia. I thought I saw you die in the valley of the Valkia, but—”

Conan lunged like a dying tiger. Skilled fighter though the Adventurer was, he didn’t realize the deadly speed hidden in a barbarian’s muscles. He was caught off guard, his heavy sword half raised. Before he could strike or block, the king’s dagger drove into his throat above the gorget, angling down into his heart. With a choking gurgle he staggered and fell, and Conan savagely yanked his blade free as his victim collapsed. The white horse snorted violently and shied at the sight and smell of blood on the sword.

Glaring down at his dead enemy, dagger dripping in his hand, sweat shining on his broad chest, Conan stood motionless like a statue, listening intently. In the woods around him there was no sound except the sleepy chirp of waking birds. But from the city, a mile away, he heard the harsh blare of a trumpet.

Quickly he bent over the fallen man. A short search convinced him that whatever message the man carried had been meant to be spoken, not written. But Conan didn’t stop his work. It was only a few hours until dawn. A few minutes later, the white horse was galloping west along the pale road, its rider now wearing the gray mail of a Nemedian Adventurer.

7 - THE RENDING OF THE VEIL  
The Rending of the Veil  

Conan knew his only chance to escape was speed. He didn’t even think about hiding near Belverus until the pursuit passed; he was sure Tarascus’s eerie ally could sniff him out. Besides, he wasn’t the kind to skulk and hide; he preferred an open fight or an open chase. He knew he had a long head start. He’d make them run a brutal race for the border.

Zenobia had chosen well when she picked the white horse. Its speed, toughness, and endurance were obvious. The girl knew weapons and horses, and, Conan thought with some satisfaction, she knew men too. He rode west at a pace that devoured the miles.

He passed through a sleeping land, past villages hidden by groves and white-walled villas among wide fields and orchards that grew fewer as he rode west. As the villages thinned, the land grew rougher, and the fortresses that glared down from the hills spoke of centuries of border wars. But no one rode down from those castles to challenge or stop him. The lords of those keeps were following Amalric’s banner; the flags that once flew over those towers now waved above the Aquilonian plains.

When the last clustered village lay behind him, Conan left the road, which was beginning to curve northwest toward the distant passes. Staying on it would mean passing border towers still manned by soldiers who would not let him through without question. He knew there would be no patrols riding the borderlands on either side, as there usually were, but those towers remained, and when dawn came, there would likely be groups of returning soldiers with wounded men in ox-carts.  

The road from Belverus was the only one that crossed the border for fifty miles north to south. It wound through a series of passes in the hills, and on either side stretched a wide expanse of wild, sparsely inhabited mountains. He kept heading west, planning to cross the border deep in the wilderness of the hills south of the passes. It was a shorter route—harder, but safer for a hunted man. One rider could cross country that an army could not.  

But by dawn he had not yet reached the hills; they stretched before him like a long, low blue wall on the horizon. There were no farms or villages here, no white villas among trees. The dawn wind stirred the tall, stiff grass, and there was nothing but long rolling waves of brown earth covered in dry grass, and in the distance, the grim walls of a fortress on a low hill. Too many Aquilonian raiders had crossed the mountains lately for the countryside to be as settled as it was farther east.  

Dawn spread like wildfire across the grasslands, and high above came a strange crying as a straggling wedge of wild geese flew swiftly south. In a grassy hollow Conan stopped and unsaddled his horse. Its sides were heaving, its coat slick with sweat. He had driven it mercilessly through the hours before dawn.  

While it chewed the dry grass and rolled on the ground, he lay on the crest of a low rise, staring east. Far to the north he could see the road he had left, stretching like a white ribbon over a distant hill. No black dots moved along that shining line. There was no sign from the far-off castle to show that anyone had noticed the lone traveler.  

An hour later the land still lay empty. The only sign of life was a glint of steel on the distant battlements and a raven circling in the sky, dipping and rising as if searching for something. Conan saddled up again and rode west at an easier pace.  

As he topped the next rise, a harsh screaming burst out overhead, and looking up, he saw the raven flapping above him, cawing endlessly. As he rode on, it followed, keeping its distance and filling the morning with its grating cries, ignoring his efforts to drive it away.  

This went on for hours, until Conan’s nerves were raw and he felt he would give half his kingdom for the chance to wring that black neck.  

“Devils of hell!” he roared in useless fury, shaking his mailed fist at the shrieking bird. “Why do you torment me with your squawking? Get lost, you black spawn of damnation, and go peck for grain in the farmer’s fields!”  

He was climbing the first slope of the hills when he thought he heard an echo of the bird’s cries far behind him. Turning in his saddle, he saw another black speck hanging in the blue sky. Beyond that, he caught the flash of sunlight on steel. That could mean only one thing: armed men. And they were not riding along the main road, which lay out of sight beyond the horizon. They were following him.  

His face hardened, and he shivered slightly as he stared at the raven circling high above.  

“So it’s more than just the whim of a brainless beast?” he muttered. “Those riders can’t see you, spawn of hell, but the other bird can see you, and they can see him. You follow me, he follows you, and they follow him. Are you a cleverly trained creature, or some demon in the shape of a bird? Did Xaltotun send you after me? Are you Xaltotun?”  

Only a harsh screech answered him, vibrating with cruel mockery.  

Conan wasted no more words on his dark betrayer. Grimly, he settled into the long, grinding climb through the hills. He did not dare push his horse too hard; the brief rest he had given it had not been enough to restore its strength. He was still far ahead of his pursuers, but they were steadily closing the distance. Their horses were almost certainly fresher than his, since they had probably changed mounts at the castle he had passed earlier.  

The land grew rougher, the scenery more rugged, with steep grassy slopes rising into thickly forested mountainsides. Here, he knew, he might have lost his hunters—if not for that cursed bird screeching endlessly above him. He could no longer see his pursuers in the broken terrain, but he was sure they were still following, guided without fail by their feathered ally. That black shape had become a demonic tormentor, hounding him through endless hells. The stones he hurled with curses missed or fell harmlessly, though in his youth he had brought down hawks in flight.  

The horse was tiring fast. Conan recognized the grim finality of his situation. He felt an unstoppable fate driving him forward. He could not escape. He was as much a prisoner as he had been in the pits of Belverus. But he was not one to surrender passively to what seemed inevitable. If he could not get away, he would at least take some of his enemies with him into death. He turned into a wide thicket of larches that covered a slope, searching for a place to make his stand.  

Ahead of him came a strange, high-pitched scream—human, but oddly toned. A moment later he pushed through a screen of branches and saw the source of that eerie cry. In a small clearing below, four soldiers in Nemedian chain mail were tying a noose around the neck of a thin old woman dressed like a peasant. A bundle of firewood, bound with rope and lying on the ground nearby, showed what she had been doing when these stragglers found her.  

Conan felt a slow, burning fury rise in his chest as he looked down silently and saw the ruffians dragging her toward a tree whose low, spreading branches were clearly meant to serve as a gallows. He had crossed the border an hour ago. He was standing on his own land, watching the murder of one of his own people. The old woman struggled with surprising strength and energy, and as he watched, she lifted her head and gave again the strange, far-carrying cry he had heard before. It was echoed mockingly by the raven flapping above the trees. The soldiers laughed roughly, and one struck her in the mouth.
