12 - THE FANG OF THE DRAGON
The Fang of the Dragon

At dawn Conan waded his horse across the shallows of the Alimane and
struck the wide caravan trail which ran southeastward, and behind him,
on the farther bank, Trocero sat his horse silently at the head of his
steel-clad knights, with the crimson leopard of Poitain floating its
long folds over him in the morning breeze. Silently they sat, those
dark-haired men in shining steel, until the figure of their king had
vanished in the blue of distance that whitened toward sunrise.

Conan rode a great black stallion, the gift of Trocero. He no longer
wore the armor of Aquilonia. His harness proclaimed him a veteran of
the Free Companies, who were of all races. His headpiece was a plain
morion, dented and battered. The leather and mail-mesh of his hauberk
were worn and shiny as if by many campaigns, and the scarlet cloak
flowing carelessly from his mailed shoulders was tattered and stained.
He looked the part of the hired fighting-man, who had known all
vicissitudes of fortune, plunder and wealth one day, an empty purse and
a close-drawn belt the next.

And more than looking the part, he felt the part; the awakening of old
memories, the resurge of the wild, mad, glorious days of old before his
feet were set on the imperial path when he was a wandering mercenary,
roistering, brawling, guzzling, adventuring, with no thought for the
morrow, and no desire save sparkling ale, red lips, and a keen sword to
swing on all the battlefields of the world.

Unconsciously he reverted to the old ways; a new swagger became evident
in his bearing, in the way he sat his horse; half-forgotten oaths rose
naturally to his lips, and as he rode he hummed old songs that he had
roared in chorus with his reckless companions in many a tavern and on
many a dusty road or bloody field.

It was an unquiet land through which he rode. The companies of cavalry
which usually patrolled the river, alert for raids out of Poitain, were
nowhere in evidence. Internal strife had left the borders unguarded. The
long white road stretched bare from horizon to horizon. No laden camel
trains or rumbling wagons or lowing herds moved along it now; only
occasional groups of horsemen in leather and steel, hawk-faced,
hard-eyed men, who kept together and rode warily. These swept Conan with
their searching gaze but rode on, for the solitary rider's harness
promised no plunder, but only hard strokes.

Villages lay in ashes and deserted, the fields and meadows idle. Only
the boldest would ride the roads these days, and the native population
had been decimated in the civil wars, and by raids from across the
river. In more peaceful times the road was thronged with merchants
riding Poitain to Messantia in Argos, or back. But now these found it
wiser to follow the road that led east through Poitain, and then turned
south down across Argos. It was longer, but safer. Only an extremely
reckless man would risk his life and goods on this road through Zingara.

The southern horizon was fringed with flame by night, and in the day
straggling pillars of smoke drifted upward; in the cities and plains to
the south men were dying, thrones were toppling and castles going up in
flames. Conan felt the old tug of the professional fighting-man, to turn
his horse and plunge into the fighting, the pillaging and the looting as
in the days of old. Why should he toil to regain the rule of a people
which had already forgotten him?--why chase a will-o'-the-wisp, why
pursue a crown that was lost for ever? Why should he not seek
forgetfulness, lose himself in the red tides of war and rapine that had
engulfed him so often before? Could he not, indeed, carve out another
kingdom for himself? The world was entering an age of iron, an age of
war and imperialistic ambition; some strong man might well rise above
the ruins of nations as a supreme conqueror. Why should it not be
himself? So his familiar devil whispered in his ear, and the phantoms of
his lawless and bloody past crowded upon him. But he did not turn aside;
he rode onward, following a quest that grew dimmer and dimmer as he
advanced, until sometimes it seemed that he pursued a dream that never
was.

He pushed the black stallion as hard as he dared, but the long white
road lay bare before him, from horizon to horizon. It was a long start
Zorathus had, but Conan rode steadily on, knowing that he was traveling
faster than the burdened merchants could travel. And so he came to the
castle of Count Valbroso, perched like a vulture's eyrie on a bare hill
overlooking the road.

       *       *       *       *       *

Valbroso rode down with his men-at-arms, a lean, dark man with
glittering eyes and a predatory beak of a nose. He wore black
plate-armor and was followed by thirty spearmen, black-mustached hawks
of the border wars, as avaricious and ruthless as himself. Of late the
toll of the caravans had been slim, and Valbroso cursed the civil wars
that stripped the roads of their fat traffic, even while he blessed them
for the free hand they allowed him with his neighbors.

He had not hoped much from the solitary rider he had glimpsed from his
tower, but all was grist that came to his mill. With a practised eye he
took in Conan's worn mail and dark, scarred face, and his conclusions
were the same as those of the riders who had passed the Cimmerian on the
road--an empty purse and a ready blade.

'Who are you, knave?' he demanded.

'A mercenary, riding for Argos,' answered Conan. 'What matter names?'

'You are riding in the wrong direction for a Free Companion,' grunted
Valbroso. 'Southward the fighting is good and also the plundering. Join
my company. You won't go hungry. The road remains bare of fat merchants
to strip, but I mean to take my rogues and fare southward to sell our
swords to whichever side seems strongest.'

Conan did not at once reply, knowing that if he refused outright, he
might be instantly attacked by Valbroso's men-at-arms. Before he could
make up his mind, the Zingaran spoke again:

'You rogues of the Free Companies always know tricks to make men talk. I
have a prisoner--the last merchant I caught, by Mitra, and the only one
I've seen for a week--and the knave is stubborn. He has an iron box,
the secret of which defies us, and I've been unable to persuade him to
open it. By Ishtar, I thought I knew all the modes of persuasion there
are, but perhaps you, as a veteran Free Companion, know some that I do
not. At any rate come with me and see what you may do.'

