Valbroso's words instantly decided Conan. That sounded a great deal like
Zorathus. Conan did not know the merchant, but any man who was stubborn
enough to try to traverse the Zingaran road in times like these would
very probably be stubborn enough to defy torture.

He fell in beside Valbroso and rode up the straggling road to the top of
the hill where the gaunt castle stood. As a man-at-arms he should have
ridden behind the count, but force of habit made him careless and
Valbroso paid no heed. Years of life on the border had taught the count
that the frontier is not the royal court. He was aware of the
independence of the mercenaries, behind whose swords many a king had
trodden the throne-path.

There was a dry moat, half filled with debris in some places. They
clattered across the drawbridge and through the arch of the gate. Behind
them the portcullis fell with a sullen clang. They came into a bare
courtyard, grown with straggling grass, and with a well in the middle.
Shacks for the men-at-arms straggled about the bailey wall, and women,
slatternly or decked in gaudy finery, looked from the doors.
Fighting-men in rusty mail tossed dice on the flags under the arches. It
was more like a bandit's hold than the castle of a nobleman.

Valbroso dismounted and motioned Conan to follow him. They went
through a doorway and along a vaulted corridor, where they were
met by a scarred, hard-looking man in mail descending a stone
staircase--evidently the captain of the guard.

'How, Beloso,' quoth Valbroso; 'has he spoken?'

'He is stubborn,' muttered Beloso, shooting a glance of suspicion at
Conan.

Valbroso ripped out an oath and stamped furiously up the winding stair,
followed by Conan and the captain. As they mounted, the groans of a man
in mortal agony became audible. Valbroso's torture-room was high above
the court, instead of in a dungeon below. In that chamber, where a
gaunt, hairy beast of a man in leather breeks squatted gnawing a
beef-bone voraciously, stood the machines of torture--racks, boots,
hooks and all the implements that the human mind devises to tear flesh,
break bones and rend and rupture veins and ligaments.

On a rack a man was stretched naked, and a glance told Conan that he was
dying. The unnatural elongation of his limbs and body told of unhinged
joints and unnamable ruptures. He was a dark man, with an intelligent,
aquiline face and quick dark eyes. They were glazed and bloodshot now
with pain, and the dew of agony glistened on his face. His lips were
drawn back from blackened gums.

'There is the box.' Viciously Valbroso kicked a small but heavy iron
chest that stood on the floor near by. It was intricately carved, with
tiny skulls and writhing dragons curiously intertwined, but Conan saw no
catch or hasp that might serve to unlock the lid. The marks of fire, of
ax and sledge and chisel showed on it but as scratches.

'This is the dog's treasure box,' said Valbroso angrily. 'All men of the
south know of Zorathus and his iron chest. Mitra knows what is in it.
But he will not give up its secret.'

Zorathus! It was true, then; the man he sought lay before him. Conan's
heart beat suffocatingly as he leaned over the writhing form, though he
exhibited no evidence of his painful eagerness.

'Ease those ropes, knave!' he ordered the torturer harshly, and Valbroso
and his captain stared. In the forgetfulness of the moment Conan had
used his imperial tone, and the brute in leather instinctively obeyed
the knife-edge of command in that voice. He eased away gradually, for
else the slackening of the ropes had been as great a torment to the torn
joints as further stretching.

Catching up a vessel of wine that stood near by, Conan placed the rim to
the wretch's lips. Zorathus gulped spasmodically, the liquid slopping
over on his heaving breast.

Into the bloodshot eyes came a gleam of recognition, and the
froth-smeared lips parted. From them issued a racking whimper in the
Kothic tongue.

'Is this death, then? Is the long agony ended? For this is King Conan
who died at Valkia, and I am among the dead.'

'You're not dead,' said Conan. 'But you're dying. You'll be tortured no
more. I'll see to that. But I can't help you further. Yet before you
die, tell me how to open your iron box!'

'My iron box,' mumbled Zorathus in delirious disjointed phrases. 'The
chest forged in unholy fires among the flaming mountains of Khrosha; the
metal no chisel can cut. How many treasures has it borne, across the
width and the breadth of the world! But no such treasure as it now
holds.'

'Tell me how to open it,' urged Conan. 'It can do you no good, and it
may aid me.'

'Aye, you are Conan,' muttered the Kothian. 'I have seen you sitting on
your throne in the great public hall of Tarantia, with your crown on
your head and the scepter in your hand. But you are dead; you died at
Valkia. And so I know my own end is at hand.'

'What does the dog say?' demanded Valbroso impatiently, not
understanding Kothic. 'Will he tell us how to open the box?'

As if the voice roused a spark of life in the twisted breast Zorathus
rolled his bloodshot eyes toward the speaker.

'Only Valbroso will I tell,' he gasped in Zingaran. 'Death is upon me.
Lean close to me, Valbroso!'

The count did so, his dark face lit with avarice; behind him his
saturnine captain, Beloso, crowded closer.

'Press the seven skulls on the rim, one after another,' gasped Zorathus.
'Press then the head of the dragon that writhes across the lid. Then
press the sphere in the dragon's claws. That will release the secret
catch.'

'Quick, the box!' cried Valbroso with an oath.

Conan lifted it and set it on a dais, and Valbroso shouldered him aside.

'Let me open it!' cried Beloso, starting forward.

Valbroso cursed him back, his greed blazing in his black eyes.

'None but me shall open it!' he cried.

