But suddenly a door opened in the wall ahead of him, and he slipped into
the shadow of an arch. A figure emerged from the open door and moved
along the alley, not furtively, but with a natural noiselessness, like
that of a jungle beast. Enough starlight filtered into the alley to
silhouette the man's profile dimly as he passed the doorway where Conan
lurked. The stranger was a Stygian. There was no mistaking that
hawk-faced, shaven head, even in the starlight, nor the mantle over the
broad shoulders. He passed on down the alley in the direction of the
beach, and once Conan thought he must be carrying a lantern among his
garments, for he caught a flash of lambent light, just as the man
vanished.

But the Cimmerian forgot the stranger as he noticed that the door
through which he had emerged still stood open. Conan had intended
entering by the main entrance and forcing Servio to show him the room
where the Zingaran slept. But if he could get into the house without
attracting anyone's attention, so much the better.

A few long strides brought him to the door, and as his hand fell on the
lock he stifled an involuntary grunt. His practised fingers, skilled
among the thieves of Zamora long ago, told him that the lock had been
forced, apparently by some terrific pressure from the outside that had
twisted and bent the heavy iron bolts, tearing the very sockets loose
from the jambs. How such damage could have been wrought so violently
without awakening everyone in the neighborhood Conan could not imagine,
but he felt sure that it had been done that night. A broken lock, if
discovered, would not go unmended in the house of Servio, in this
neighborhood of thieves and cutthroats.

Conan entered stealthily, poniard in hand, wondering how he was to find
the chamber of the Zingaran. Groping in total darkness he halted
suddenly. He sensed death in that room, as a wild beast senses it--not
as peril threatening him, but a dead thing, something freshly slain. In
the darkness his foot hit and recoiled from something heavy and
yielding. With a sudden premonition he groped along the wall until he
found the shelf that supported the brass lamp, with its flint, steel and
tinder beside it. A few seconds later a flickering, uncertain light
sprang up, and he stared narrowly about him.

A bunk built against the rough stone wall, a bare table and a bench
completed the furnishings of the squalid chamber. An inner door stood
closed and bolted. And on the hard-beaten dirt floor lay Beloso. On his
back he lay, with his head drawn back between his shoulders so that he
seemed to stare with his wide glassy eyes at the sooty beams of the
cobwebbed ceiling. His lips were drawn back from his teeth in a frozen
grin of agony. His sword lay near him, still in its scabbard. His shirt
was torn open, and on his brown, muscular breast was the print of a
black hand, thumb and four fingers plainly distinct.

Conan glared in silence, feeling the short hairs bristle at the back of
his neck.

'Crom!' he muttered. 'The black hand of Set!'

He had seen that mark of old, the death-mark of the black priests of
Set, the grim cult that ruled in dark Stygia. And suddenly he remembered
that curious flash he had seen emanating from the mysterious Stygian who
had emerged from this chamber.

'The Heart, by Crom!' he muttered. 'He was carrying it under his mantle.
He stole it. He burst that door by his magic, and slew Beloso. He was a
priest of Set.'

A quick investigation confirmed at least part of his suspicions. The
jewel was not on the Zingaran's body. An uneasy feeling rose in Conan
that this had not happened by chance, or without design; a conviction
that the mysterious Stygian galley had come into the harbor of Messantia
on a definite mission. How could the priests of Set know that the Heart
had come southward? Yet the thought was no more fantastic than the
necromancy that could slay an armed man by the touch of an open, empty
hand.

A stealthy footfall outside the door brought him round like a great cat.
With one motion he extinguished the lamp and drew his sword. His ears
told him that men were out there in the darkness, were closing in on the
doorway. As his eyes became accustomed to the sudden darkness, he could
make out dim figures ringing the entrance. He could not guess their
identity, but as always he took the initiative--leaping suddenly forth
from the doorway without awaiting the attack.

His unexpected movement took the skulkers by surprise. He sensed and
heard men close about him, saw a dim masked figure in the starlight
before him; then his sword crunched home, and he was fleeting away down
the alley before the slower-thinking and slower-acting attackers could
intercept him.

As he ran he heard, somewhere ahead of him, a faint creak of oar-locks,
and he forgot the men behind him. A boat was moving out into the bay!
Gritting his teeth he increased his speed, but before he reached the
beach he heard the rasp and creak of ropes, and the grind of the great
sweep in its socket.

Thick clouds, rolling up from the sea, obscured the stars. In thick
darkness Conan came upon the strand, straining his eyes out across the
black restless water. Something was moving out there--a long, low, black
shape that receded in the darkness, gathering momentum as it went. To
his ears came the rhythmical clack of long oars. He ground his teeth in
helpless fury. It was the Stygian galley and she was racing out to sea,
bearing with her the jewel that meant to him the throne of Aquilonia.

With a savage curse he took a step toward the waves that lapped against
the sands, catching at his hauberk and intending to rip it off and swim
after the vanishing ship. Then the crunch of a heel in the sand brought
him about. He had forgotten his pursuers.

Dark figures closed in on him with a rush of feet through the sands. The
first went down beneath the Cimmerian's flailing sword, but the others
did not falter. Blades whickered dimly about him in the darkness or
rasped on his mail. Blood and entrails spilled over his hand and someone
screamed as he ripped murderously upward. A muttered voice spurred on
the attack, and that voice sounded vaguely familiar. Conan plowed
through the clinging, hacking shapes toward the voice. A faint light
gleaming momentarily through the drifting clouds showed him a tall gaunt
man with a great livid scar on his temple. Conan's sword sheared through
his skull as through a ripe melon.

