Zenobia had chosen well in selecting the white horse. His speed,
toughness and endurance were obvious. The girl knew weapons and horses,
and, Conan reflected with some satisfaction, she knew men. He rode
westward at a gait that ate up the miles.

It was a sleeping land through which he rode, past grove-sheltered
villages and white-walled villas amid spacious fields and orchards that
grew sparser as he fared westward. As the villages thinned, the land
grew more rugged, and the keeps that frowned from eminences told of
centuries of border war. But none rode down from those castles to
challenge or halt him. The lords of the keeps were following the banner
of Amalric; the pennons that were wont to wave over these towers were
now floating over the Aquilonian plains.

When the last huddled village fell behind him, Conan left the road,
which was beginning to bend toward the northwest, toward the distant
passes. To keep to the road would mean to pass by border towers, still
garrisoned with armed men who would not allow him to pass unquestioned.
He knew there would be no patrols riding the border marches on either
side, as in ordinary times, but there were those towers, and with dawn
there would probably be cavalcades of returning soldiers with wounded
men in ox-carts.

This road from Belverus was the only road that crossed the border for
fifty miles from north to south. It followed a series of passes through
the hills, and on either hand lay a wide expanse of wild, sparsely
inhabited mountains. He maintained his due westerly direction, intending
to cross the border deep in the wilds of the hills that lay to the south
of the passes. It was a shorter route, more arduous, but safer for a
hunted fugitive. One man on a horse could traverse country an army would
find impassable.

But at dawn he had not reached the hills; they were a long, low, blue
rampart stretching along the horizon ahead of him. Here there were
neither farms nor villages, no white-walled villas looming among
clustering trees. The dawn wind stirred the tall stiff grass, and there
was nothing but the long rolling swells of brown earth, covered with dry
grass, and in the distance the gaunt walls of a stronghold on a low
hill. Too many Aquilonian raiders had crossed the mountains in not too
distant days for the countryside to be thickly settled as it was farther
to the east.

Dawn ran like a prairie fire across the grasslands, and high overhead
sounded a weird crying as a straggling wedge of wild geese winged
swiftly southward. In a grassy swale Conan halted and unsaddled his
mount. Its sides were heaving, its coat plastered with sweat. He had
pushed it unmercifully through the hours before dawn.

While it munched the brittle grass and rolled, he lay at the crest of
the low slope, staring eastward. Far away to the northward he could see
the road he had left, streaming like a white ribbon over a distant rise.
No black dots moved along that glistening ribbon. There was no sign
about the castle in the distance to indicate that the keepers had
noticed the lone wayfarer.

An hour later the land still stretched bare. The only sign of life was a
glint of steel on the far-off battlements, a raven in the sky that
wheeled backward and forth, dipping and rising as if seeking something.
Conan saddled and rode westward at a more leisurely gait.

As he topped the farther crest of the slope, a raucous screaming burst
out over his head, and looking up, he saw the raven flapping high above
him, cawing incessantly. As he rode on, it followed him, maintaining its
position and making the morning hideous with its strident cries,
heedless of his efforts to drive it away.

This kept up for hours, until Conan's teeth were on edge, and he felt
that he would give half his kingdom to be allowed to wring that black
neck.

'Devils of hell!' he roared in futile rage, shaking his mailed fist at
the frantic bird. 'Why do you harry me with your squawking? Begone, you
black spawn of perdition, and peck for wheat in the farmer's fields!'

He was ascending the first pitch of the hills, and he seemed to hear an
echo of the bird's clamor far behind him. Turning in his saddle, he
presently made out another black dot hanging in the blue. Beyond that
again he caught the glint of the afternoon sun on steel. That could mean
only one thing: armed men. And they were not riding along the beaten
road, which was out of his sight beyond the horizon. They were following
him.

His face grew grim and he shivered slightly as he stared at the raven
that wheeled high above him.

'So it is more than the whim of a brainless beast?' he muttered. 'Those
riders cannot see you, spawn of hell; but the other bird can see you,
and they can see him. You follow me, he follows you, and they follow
him. Are you only a craftily trained feathered creature, or some devil
in the form of a bird? Did Xaltotun set you on my trail? Are you
Xaltotun?'

Only a strident screech answered him, a screech vibrating with harsh
mockery.

Conan wasted no more breath on his dusky betrayer. Grimly he settled to
the long grind of the hills. He dared not push the horse too hard; the
rest he had allowed it had not been enough to freshen it. He was still
far ahead of his pursuers, but they would cut down that lead steadily.
It was almost a certainty that their horses were fresher than his, for
they had undoubtedly changed mounts at that castle he had passed.

The going grew rougher, the scenery more rugged, steep grassy slopes
pitching up to densely timbered mountainsides. Here, he knew, he might
elude his hunters, but for that hellish bird that squalled incessantly
above him. He could no longer see them in this broken country, but he
was certain that they still followed him, guided unerringly by their
feathered allies. That black shape became like a demoniac incubus,
hounding him through measureless hells. The stones he hurled with a
curse went wide or fell harmless, though in his youth he had felled
hawks on the wing.

The horse was tiring fast. Conan recognized the grim finality of his
position. He sensed an inexorable driving fate behind all this. He could
not escape. He was as much a captive as he had been in the pits of
Belverus. But he was no son of the Orient to yield passively to what
seemed inevitable. If he could not escape, he would at least take some
of his foes into eternity with him. He turned into a wide thicket of
larches that masked a slope, looking for a place to turn at bay.

