'Then there is no more to be said!' exclaimed one of the others
impatiently, and he spoke with a Nemedian accent. 'Where is the
headsman?'

As if summoned by the word, the dungeon door opened silently, and a
great figure stood framed in it, like a black shadow from the
underworld.

Albiona voiced a low, involuntary cry at the sight of that grim shape,
and the others stared silently for a moment, perhaps themselves daunted
with superstitious awe at the silent, hooded figure. Through the coif
the eyes blazed like coals of blue fire, and as these eyes rested on
each man in turn, he felt a curious chill travel down his spine.

Then the tall Aquilonian roughly seized the girl and dragged her to the
block. She screamed uncontrollably and fought hopelessly against him,
frantic with terror, but he ruthlessly forced her to her knees, and bent
her yellow head down to the bloody block.

'Why do you delay, headsman?' he exclaimed angrily. 'Perform your task!'

He was answered by a short, gusty boom of laughter that was
indescribably menacing. All in the dungeon froze in their places,
staring at the hooded shape--the two cloaked figures, the masked man
bending over the girl, the girl herself on her knees, twisting her
imprisoned head to look upward.

'What means this unseemly mirth, dog?' demanded the Aquilonian uneasily.

The man in the black garb tore his hood from his head and flung it to
the ground; he set his back to the closed door and lifted the headsman's
ax.

'Do you know me, dogs?' he rumbled. 'Do you know me?'

The breathless silence was broken by a scream.

'The king!' shrieked Albiona, wrenching herself free from the slackened
grasp of her captor. 'Oh, Mitra, the king!'

The three men stood like statues, and then the Aquilonian started and
spoke, like a man who doubts his own senses.

'Conan!' he ejaculated. 'It is the king, or his ghost! What devil's work
is this?'

'Devil's work to match devils!' mocked Conan, his lips laughing but hell
flaming in his eyes. 'Come, fall to, my gentlemen. You have your swords,
and I this cleaver. Nay, I think this butcher's tool fits the work at
hand, my fair lords!'

'At him!' muttered the Aquilonian, drawing his sword. 'It is Conan and
we must kill or be killed!'

And like men waking from a trance, the Nemedians drew their blades and
rushed on the king.

The headsman's ax was not made for such work, but the king wielded the
heavy, clumsy weapon as lightly as a hatchet, and his quickness of foot,
as he constantly shifted his position, defeated their purpose of
engaging him all three at once.

He caught the sword of the first man on his ax-head and crushed in the
wielder's breast with a murderous counterstroke before he could step
back or parry. The remaining Nemedian, missing a savage swipe, had his
brains dashed out before he could recover his balance, and an instant
later the Aquilonian was backed into a corner, desperately parrying the
crashing strokes that rained about him, lacking opportunity even to
scream for help.

Suddenly Conan's long left arm shot out and ripped the mask from the
man's head, disclosing the pallid features.

'Dog!' grated the king. 'I thought I knew you. Traitor! Damned renegade!
Even this base steel is too honorable for your foul head. Nay, die as
thieves die!'

The ax fell in a devastating arch, and the Aquilonian cried out and went
to his knees, grasping the severed stump of his right arm from which
blood spouted. It had been shorn away at the elbow, and the ax,
unchecked in its descent, had gashed deeply into his side, so that his
entrails bulged out.

'Lie there and bleed to death,' grunted Conan, casting the ax away
disgustedly. 'Come, Countess!'

Stooping, he slashed the cords that bound her wrists and lifting her as
if she had been a child, strode from the dungeon. She was sobbing
hysterically, with her arms thrown about his corded neck in a frenzied
embrace.

'Easy all,' he muttered. 'We're not out of this yet. If we can reach
the dungeon where the secret door opens on stairs that lead to the
tunnel--devil take it, they've heard that noise, even through these
walls.'

Down the corridor arms clanged and the tramp and shouting of men echoed
under the vaulted roof. A bent figure came hobbling swiftly along,
lantern held high, and its light shone full on Conan and the girl. With
a curse the Cimmerian sprang toward him, but the old watchman,
abandoning both lantern and pike, scuttled away down the corridor,
screeching for help at the top of his cracked voice. Deeper shouts
answered him.

Conan turned swiftly and ran the other way. He was cut off from the
dungeon with the secret lock and the hidden door through which he had
entered the Tower, and by which he had hoped to leave, but he knew this
grim building well. Before he was king he had been imprisoned in it.

He turned off into a side passage and quickly emerged into another,
broader corridor, which ran parallel to the one down which he had come,
and which was at the moment deserted. He followed this only a few yards,
when he again turned back, down another side passage. This brought him
back into the corridor he had left, but at a strategic point. A few feet
farther up the corridor there was a heavy bolted door, and before it
stood a bearded Nemedian in corselet and helmet, his back to Conan as he
peered up the corridor in the direction of the growing tumult and wildly
waving lanterns.

Conan did not hesitate. Slipping the girl to the ground, he ran at the
guard swiftly and silently, sword in hand. The man turned just as the
king reached him, bawled in surprise and fright and lifted his pike; but
before he could bring the clumsy weapon into play, Conan brought down
his sword on the fellow's helmet with a force that would have felled an
ox. Helmet and skull gave way together and the guard crumpled to the
floor.

In an instant Conan had drawn the massive bolt that barred the door--too
heavy for one ordinary man to have manipulated--and called hastily to
Albiona, who ran staggering to him. Catching her up unceremoniously with
one arm, he bore her through the door and into the outer darkness.

