Then an ax, swung blindly in the dark, crashed on the king's basinet,
filling his eyes with sparks of fire. He lurched and lunged, felt his
sword sink deep and heard a shriek of agony. Then he stumbled over a
corpse, and a bludgeon knocked the dented helmet from his head; the next
instant the club fell full on his unprotected skull.

The king of Aquilonia crumpled into the wet sands. Over him wolfish
figures panted in the gloom.

'Strike off his head,' muttered one.

'Let him lie,' grunted another. 'Help me tie up my wounds before I bleed
to death. The tide will wash him into the bay. See, he fell at the
water's edge. His skull's split; no man could live after such blows.'

'Help me strip him,' urged another. 'His harness will fetch a few
pieces of silver. And haste. Tiberio is dead, and I hear seamen singing
as they reel along the strand. Let us be gone.'

There followed hurried activity in the darkness, and then the sound of
quickly receding footsteps. The tipsy singing of the seamen grew louder.

       *       *       *       *       *

In his chamber Publio, nervously pacing back and forth before a window
that overlooked the shadowed bay, whirled suddenly, his nerves tingling.
To the best of his knowledge the door had been bolted from within; but
now it stood open and four men filed into the chamber. At the sight of
them his flesh crawled. Many strange beings Publio had seen in his
lifetime, but none before like these. They were tall and gaunt,
black-robed, and their faces were dim yellow ovals in the shadows of
their coifs. He could not tell much about their features and was
unreasoningly glad that he could not. Each bore a long, curiously
mottled staff.

'Who are you?' he demanded, and his voice sounded brittle and hollow.
'What do you wish here?'

'Where is Conan, he who was king of Aquilonia?' demanded the tallest of
the four in a passionless monotone that made Publio shudder. It was like
the hollow tone of a Khitan temple bell.

'I do not know what you mean,' stammered the merchant, his customary
poise shaken by the uncanny aspect of his visitors. 'I know no such
man.'

'He has been here,' returned the other with no change of inflection.
'His horse is in the courtyard. Tell us where he is before we do you an
injury.'

'Gebal!' shouted Publio frantically, recoiling until he crouched against
the wall. '_Gebal!_'

The four Khitans watched him without emotion or change of expression.

'If you summon your slave he will die,' warned one of them, which only
served to terrify Publio more than ever.

'Gebal!' he screamed. 'Where are you, curse you? Thieves are murdering
your master!'

Swift footsteps padded in the corridor outside, and Gebal burst into the
chamber--a Shemite, of medium height and mightily muscled build, his
curled blue-black beard bristling, and a short leaf-shaped sword in his
hand.

He stared in stupid amazement at the four invaders, unable to understand
their presence; dimly remembering that he had drowsed unexplainably on
the stair he was guarding and up which they must have come. He had never
slept on duty before. But his master was shrieking with a note of
hysteria in his voice, and the Shemite drove like a bull at the
strangers, his thickly muscled arm drawing back for the disemboweling
thrust. But the stroke was never dealt.

A black-sleeved arm shot out, extending the long staff. Its end but
touched the Shemite's brawny breast and was instantly withdrawn. The
stroke was horribly like the dart and recovery of a serpent's head.

Gebal halted short in his headlong plunge, as if he had encountered a
solid barrier. His bull head toppled forward on his breast, the sword
slipped from his fingers, and then he melted slowly to the floor. It was
as if all the bones of his frame had suddenly become flabby. Publio
turned sick.

'Do not shout again,' advised the tallest Khitan. 'Your servants sleep
soundly, but if you awaken them they will die, and you with them. Where
is Conan?'

'He is gone to the house of Servio, near the waterfront, to search for
the Zingaran Beloso,' gasped Publio, all his power of resistance gone
out of him. The merchant did not lack courage; but these uncanny
visitants turned his marrow to water. He started convulsively at a
sudden noise of footsteps hurrying up the stair outside, loud in the
ominous stillness.

'Your servant?' asked the Khitan.

Publio shook his head mutely, his tongue frozen to his palate. He could
not speak.

One of the Khitans caught up a silken cover from a couch and threw it
over the corpse. Then they melted behind the tapestry, but before the
tallest man disappeared, he murmured: 'Talk to this man who comes, and
send him away quickly. If you betray us, neither he nor you will live to
reach that door. Make no sign to show him you are not alone.' And
lifting his staff suggestively, the yellow man faded behind the
hangings.

Publio shuddered and choked down a desire to retch. It might have been a
trick of the light, but it seemed to him that occasionally those staffs
moved slightly of their own accord, as if possessed of an unspeakable
life of their own.

He pulled himself together with a mighty effort, and presented a
composed aspect to the ragged ruffian who burst into the chamber.

'We have done as you wished, my lord,' this man exclaimed. 'The
barbarian lies dead on the sands at the water's edge.'

Publio felt a movement in the arras behind him, and almost burst from
fright. The man swept heedlessly on.

'Your secretary, Tiberio, is dead. The barbarian slew him, and four of
my companions. We bore their bodies to the rendezvous. There was
nothing of value on the barbarian except a few silver coins. Are there
any further orders?'

'None!' gasped Publio, white about the lips. 'Go!'

The desperado bowed and hurried out, with a vague feeling that Publio
was both a man of weak stomach and few words.

The four Khitans came from behind the arras.

'Of whom did this man speak?' the taller demanded.

'Of a wandering stranger who did me an injury,' panted Publio.

