Xaltotun cried out as if he had been stabbed.

'The Heart! The Heart of Ahriman!'

'Aye! The one power that is greater than your power!'

Xaltotun seemed to shrivel, to grow old. Suddenly his beard was shot
with snow, his locks flecked with gray.

'The Heart!' he mumbled. 'You stole it! Dog! Thief!'

'Not I! It has been on a long journey far to the southward. But now it
is in my hands, and your black arts cannot stand against it. As it
resurrected you, so shall it hurl you back into the night whence it drew
you. You shall go down the dark road to Acheron, which is the road of
silence and the night. The dark empire, unreborn, shall remain a legend
and a black memory. Conan shall reign again. And the Heart of Ahriman
shall go back into the cavern below the temple of Mitra, to burn as a
symbol of the power of Aquilonia for a thousand years!'

Xaltotun screamed inhumanly and rushed around the altar, dagger lifted;
but from somewhere--out of the sky, perhaps, or the great jewel that
blazed in the hand of Hadrathus--shot a jetting beam of blinding blue
light. Full against the breast of Xaltotun it flashed, and the hills
re-echoed the concussion. The wizard of Acheron went down as though
struck by a thunderbolt, and before he touched the ground he was
fearfully altered. Beside the altar-stone lay no fresh-slain corpse, but
a shriveled mummy, a brown, dry, unrecognizable carcass sprawling among
moldering swathings.

Somberly old Zelata looked down.

'He was not a living man,' she said. 'The Heart lent him a false aspect
of life, that deceived even himself. I never saw him as other than a
mummy.'

Hadrathus bent to unbind the swooning girl on the altar, when from among
the trees appeared a strange apparition--Xaltotun's chariot drawn by the
weird horses. Silently they advanced to the altar and halted, with the
chariot wheel almost touching the brown withered thing on the grass.
Hadrathus lifted the body of the wizard and placed it in the chariot.
And without hesitation the uncanny steeds turned and moved off
southward, down the hill. And Hadrathus and Zelata and the gray wolf
watched them go--down the long road to Acheron which is beyond the ken
of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Down in the valley Amalric had stiffened in his saddle when he saw that
wild horseman curvetting and caracoling on the slopes while he
brandished that blood-stained serpent-banner. Then some instinct jerked
his head about, toward the hill known as the King's Altar. And his lips
parted. Every man in the valley saw it--an arching shaft of dazzling
light that towered up from the summit of the hill, showering golden
fire. High above the hosts it burst in a blinding blaze that momentarily
paled the sun.

'That's not Xaltotun's signal!' roared the baron.

'No!' shouted Tarascus. 'It's a signal to the Aquilonians! Look!'

Above them the immobile ranks were moving at last, and a deep-throated
roar thundered across the vale.

'Xaltotun has failed us!' bellowed Amalric furiously. 'Valerius has
failed us! We have been led into a trap! Mitra's curse on Xaltotun who
led us here! Sound the retreat!'

'_Too late!_' yelled Tarascus. '_Look!_'

Up on the slopes the forest of lances dipped, leveled. The ranks of the
Gundermen rolled back to right and left like a parting curtain. And with
a thunder like the rising roar of a hurricane, the knights of Aquilonia
crashed down the slopes.

The impetus of that charge was irresistible. Bolts driven by the
demoralized arbalesters glanced from their shields, their bent helmets.
Their plumes and pennons streaming out behind them, their lances
lowered, they swept over the wavering lines of pikemen and roared down
the slopes like a wave.

Amalric yelled an order to charge, and the Nemedians with desperate
courage spurred their horses at the slopes. They still outnumbered the
attackers.

But they were weary men on tired horses, charging uphill. The onrushing
knights had not struck a blow that day. Their horses were fresh. They
were coming downhill and they came like a thunderbolt. And like a
thunderbolt they smote the struggling ranks of the Nemedians--smote
them, split them apart, ripped them asunder and dashed the remnants
headlong down the slopes.

After them on foot came the Gundermen, blood-mad, and the Bossonians
were swarming down the hills, loosing as they ran at every foe that
still moved.

Down the slopes washed the tide of battle, the dazed Nemedians swept on
the crest of the wave. Their archers had thrown down their arbalests and
were fleeing. Such pikemen as had survived the blasting charge of the
knights were cut to pieces by the ruthless Gundermen.

In a wild confusion the battle swept through the wide mouth of the
valley and into the plain beyond. All over the plain swarmed the
warriors, fleeing and pursuing, broken into single combat and clumps of
smiting, hacking knights on rearing, wheeling horses. But the Nemedians
were smashed, broken, unable to re-form or make a stand. By the hundreds
they broke away, spurring for the river. Many reached it, rushed across
and rode eastward. The countryside was up behind them; the people hunted
them like wolves. Few ever reached Tarantia.

The final break did not come until the fall of Amalric. The baron,
striving in vain to rally his men, rode straight at the clump of knights
that followed the giant in black armor whose surcoat bore the royal
lion, and over whose head floated the golden lion banner with the
scarlet leopard of Poitain beside it. A tall warrior in gleaming armor
couched his lance and charged to meet the lord of Tor. They met like a
thunderclap. The Nemedian's lance, striking his foe's helmet, snapped
bolts and rivets and tore off the casque, revealing the features of
Pallantides. But the Aquilonian's lance-head crashed through shield and
breast-plate to transfix the baron's heart.

A roar went up as Amalric was hurled from his saddle, snapping the lance
that impaled him, and the Nemedians gave way as a barrier bursts under
the surging impact of a tidal wave. They rode for the river in a blind
stampede that swept the plain like a whirlwind. The hour of the Dragon
had passed.

