What he had heard registered itself on Conan's brain but suggested
nothing to him. He was like a mindless automaton that hears and sees,
but does not understand. Sights and sounds flowed meaninglessly about
him. He lapsed again into a deep lethargy, and was only dimly aware
when the chariot halted in a deep, high-walled court, and he was lifted
from it by many hands and borne up a winding stone stair, and down a
long dim corridor. Whispers, stealthy footsteps, unrelated sounds surged
or rustled about him, irrelevant and far away.

Yet his ultimate awakening was abrupt and crystal-clear. He possessed
full knowledge of the battle in the mountains and its sequences, and he
had a good idea of where he was.

He lay on a velvet couch, clad as he was the day before, but with his
limbs loaded with chains not even he could break. The room in which he
lay was furnished with somber magnificence, the walls covered with black
velvet tapestries, the floor with heavy purple carpets. There was no
sign of door or window, and one curiously carven gold lamp, swinging
from the fretted ceiling, shed a lurid light over all.

In that light the figure seated in a silver, throne-like chair before
him seemed unreal and fantastic, with an illusiveness of outline that
was heightened by a filmy silken robe. But the features were
distinct--unnaturally so in that uncertain light. It was almost as if a
weird nimbus played about the man's head, casting the bearded face into
bold relief, so that it was the only definite and distinct reality in
that mystic, ghostly chamber.

It was a magnificent face, with strongly chiseled features of classical
beauty. There was, indeed, something disquieting about the calm
tranquility of its aspect, a suggestion of more than human knowledge, of
a profound certitude beyond human assurance. Also an uneasy sensation of
familiarity twitched at the back of Conan's consciousness. He had never
seen this man's face before, he well knew; yet those features reminded
him of something or someone. It was like encountering in the flesh some
dream-image that had haunted one in nightmares.

'Who are you?' demanded the king belligerently, struggling to a sitting
position in spite of his chains.

'Men call me Xaltotun,' was the reply, in a strong, golden voice.

'What place is this?' the Cimmerian next demanded.

'A chamber in the palace of King Tarascus, in Belverus.'

Conan was not surprised. Belverus, the capital, was at the same time the
largest Nemedian city so near the border.

'And where's Tarascus?'

'With the army.'

'Well,' growled Conan, 'if you mean to murder me, why don't you do it
and get it over with?'

'I did not save you from the king's archers to murder you in Belverus,'
answered Xaltotun.

'What the devil did you do to me?' demanded Conan.

'I blasted your consciousness,' answered Xaltotun. 'How, you would not
understand. Call it black magic, if you will.'

Conan had already reached that conclusion, and was mulling over
something else.

'I think I understand why you spared my life,' he rumbled. 'Amalric
wants to keep me as a check on Valerius, in case the impossible happens
and he becomes king of Aquilonia. It's well known that the baron of Tor
is behind this move to seat Valerius on my throne. And if I know
Amalric, he doesn't intend that Valerius shall be anything more than a
figurehead, as Tarascus is now.'

'Amalric knows nothing of your capture,' answered Xaltotun. 'Neither
does Valerius. Both think you died at Valkia.'

Conan's eyes narrowed as he stared at the man in silence.

'I sensed a brain behind all this,' he muttered, 'but I thought it was
Amalric's. Are Amalric, Tarascus and Valerius all but puppets dancing on
your string? Who are you?'

'What does it matter? If I told you, you would not believe me. What if I
told you I might set you back on the throne of Aquilonia?'

Conan's eyes burned on him like a wolf.

'What's your price?'

'Obedience to me.'

'Go to hell with your offer!' snarled Conan. 'I'm no figurehead. I won
my crown with my sword. Besides, it's beyond your power to buy and sell
the throne of Aquilonia at your will. The kingdom's not conquered; one
battle doesn't decide a war.'

'You war against more than swords,' answered Xaltotun. 'Was it a
mortal's sword that felled you in your tent before the fight? Nay, it
was a child of the dark, a waif of outer space, whose fingers were afire
with the frozen coldness of the black gulfs, which froze the blood in
your veins and the marrow of your thews. Coldness so cold it burned your
flesh like white-hot iron!

'Was it chance that led the man who wore your harness to lead his
knights into the defile?--chance that brought the cliffs crashing down
upon them?'

Conan glared at him unspeaking, feeling a chill along his spine. Wizards
and sorcerers abounded in his barbaric mythology, and any fool could
tell that this was no common man. Conan sensed an inexplicable something
about him that set him apart--an alien aura of Time and Space, a sense
of tremendous and sinister antiquity. But his stubborn spirit refused to
flinch.

'The fall of the cliffs was chance,' he muttered truculently. 'The
charge into the defile was what any man would have done.'

'Not so. You would not have led a charge into it. You would have
suspected a trap. You would never have crossed the river in the first
place, until you were sure the Nemedian rout was real. Hypnotic
suggestions would not have invaded your mind, even in the madness of
battle, to make you mad, and rush blindly into the trap laid for you, as
it did the lesser man who masqueraded as you.'

'Then if this was all planned,' Conan grunted skeptically, 'all a plot
to trap my host, why did not the "child of darkness" kill me in my
tent?'

'Because I wished to take you alive. It took no wizardry to predict that
Pallantides would send another man out in your harness. I wanted you
alive and unhurt. You may fit into my scheme of things. There is a vital
power about you greater than the craft and cunning of my allies. You are
a bad enemy, but might make a fine vassal.'

