part of the city dedicated to the temples. The great structures reared
their black bulks against the dim stars, grim, indescribably menacing in
the flare of the few torches. And suddenly he heard a low scream from a
woman on the other side of the street and somewhat ahead of him--a naked
courtesan wearing the tall plumed head-dress of her class. She was
shrinking back against the wall, staring across at something he could
not yet see. At her cry the few people on the street halted suddenly as
if frozen. At the same instant Conan was aware of a sinister slithering
ahead of him. Then about the dark corner of the building he was
approaching poked a hideous, wedge-shaped head, and after it flowed coil
after coil of rippling, darkly glistening trunk.

The Cimmerian recoiled, remembering tales he had heard--serpents were
sacred to Set, god of Stygia, who men said was himself a serpent.
Monsters such as this were kept in the temples of Set, and when they
hungered, were allowed to crawl forth into the streets to take what prey
they wished. Their ghastly feasts were considered a sacrifice to the
scaly god.

The Stygians within Conan's sight fell to their knees, men and women,
and passively awaited their fate. One the great serpent would select,
would lap in scaly coils, crush to a red pulp and swallow as a rat-snake
swallows a mouse. The others would live. That was the will of the gods.

But it was not Conan's will. The python glided toward him, its attention
probably attracted by the fact that he was the only human in sight still
standing erect. Gripping his great knife under his mantle, Conan hoped
the slimy brute would pass him by. But it halted before him and reared
up horrifically in the flickering torchlight, its forked tongue
flickering in and out, its cold eyes glittering with the ancient cruelty
of the serpent-folk. Its neck arched, but before it could dart, Conan
whipped his knife from under his mantle and struck like a flicker of
lightning. The broad blade split that wedge-shaped head and sheared deep
into the thick neck.

Conan wrenched his knife free and sprang clear as the great body knotted
and looped and whipped terrifically in its death throes. In the moment
that he stood staring in morbid fascination, the only sound was the thud
and swish of the snake's tail against the stones.

Then from the shocked votaries burst a terrible cry: 'Blasphemer! He has
slain the sacred son of Set! Slay him! Slay! Slay!'

Stones whizzed about him and the crazed Stygians rushed at him,
shrieking hysterically, while from all sides others emerged from their
houses and took up the cry. With a curse Conan wheeled and darted into
the black mouth of an alley. He heard the patter of bare feet on the
flags behind him as he ran more by feel than by sight, and the walls
resounded to the vengeful yells of the pursuers. Then his left hand
found a break in the wall, and he turned sharply into another, narrower
alley. On both sides rose sheer black stone walls. High above him he
could see a thin line of stars. These giant walls, he knew, were the
walls of temples. He heard, behind him, the pack sweep past the dark
mouth in full cry. Their shouts grew distant, faded away. They had
missed the smaller alley and run straight on in the blackness. He too
kept straight ahead, though the thought of encountering another of Set's
'sons' in the darkness brought a shudder from him.

Then somewhere ahead of him he caught a moving glow, like that of a
crawling glow-worm. He halted, flattened himself against the wall and
gripped his knife. He knew what it was: a man approaching with a torch.
Now it was so close he could make out the dark hand that gripped it, and
the dim oval of a dark face. A few more steps and the man would
certainly see him. He sank into a tigerish crouch--the torch halted. A
door was briefly etched in the glow, while the torch-bearer fumbled with
it. Then it opened, the tall figure vanished through it, and darkness
closed again on the alley. There was a sinister suggestion of
furtiveness about that slinking figure, entering the alley-door in
darkness; a priest, perhaps, returning from some dark errand.

But Conan groped toward the door. If one man came up that alley with a
torch, others might come at any time. To retreat the way he had come
might mean to run full into the mob from which he was fleeing. At any
moment they might return, find the narrower alley and come howling down
it. He felt hemmed in by those sheer, unscalable walls, desirous of
escape, even if escape meant invading some unknown building.

The heavy bronze door was not locked. It opened under his fingers and he
peered through the crack. He was looking into a great square chamber of
massive black stone. A torch smoldered in a niche in the wall. The
chamber was empty. He glided through the lacquered door and closed it
behind him.

His sandaled feet made no sound as he crossed the black marble floor. A
teak door stood partly open, and gliding through this, knife in hand, he
came out into a great, dim, shadowy place whose lofty ceiling was only a
hint of darkness high above him, toward which the black walls swept
upward. On all sides black-arched doorways opened into the great still
hall. It was lit by curious bronze lamps that gave a dim weird light. On
the other side of the great hall a broad black marble stairway, without
a railing, marched upward to lose itself in gloom, and above him on all
sides dim galleries hung like black stone ledges.

Conan shivered; he was in a temple of some Stygian god, if not Set
himself, then someone barely less grim. And the shrine did not lack an
occupant. In the midst of the great hall stood a black stone altar,
massive, somber, without carvings or ornament, and upon it coiled one of
the great sacred serpents, its iridescent scales shimmering in the
lamplight. It did not move, and Conan remembered stories that the
priests kept these creatures drugged part of the time. The Cimmerian
took an uncertain step out from the door, then shrank back suddenly,
not into the room he had just quitted, but into a velvet-curtained
recess. He had heard a soft step somewhere near by.

