'_Aye!_' they roared. 'We are thy children! Lead us where you will!'

'Then fall to and clean out that waist,' he commanded. 'Free men don't
labor in such filth. Three of you come with me and break out food from
the after-cabin. By Crom, I'll pad out your ribs before this cruise is
done.'

Another yell of approbation answered him, as the half-starved blacks
scurried to do his bidding. The sail bellied as the wind swept over the
waves with renewed force, and the white crests danced along the sweep of
the wind. Conan planted his feet to the heave of the deck, breathed deep
and spread his mighty arms. King of Aquilonia he might no longer be;
king of the blue ocean he was still.

16 - BLACK-WALLED KHEMI
Black-Walled Khemi

The _Venturer_ swept southward like a living thing, her oars pulled now
by free and willing hands. She had been transformed from a peaceful
trader into a war-galley, insofar as the transformation was possible.
Men sat at the benches now with swords at their sides and gilded helmets
on their kinky heads. Shields were hung along the rails, and sheafs of
spears, bows and arrows adorned the mast. Even the elements seemed to
work for Conan now; the broad purple sail bellied to a stiff breeze that
held day by day, needing little aid from the oars.

But though Conan kept a man on the masthead day and night, they did not
sight a long, low, black galley fleeing southward ahead of them. Day by
day the blue waters rolled empty to their view, broken only by
fishing-craft which fled like frightened birds before them, at sight of
the shields hung along the rail. The season for trading was practically
over for the year, and they sighted no other ships.

When the lookout did sight a sail, it was to the north, not the south.
Far on the skyline behind them appeared a racing-galley, with full
spread of purple sail. The blacks urged Conan to turn and plunder it,
but he shook his head. Somewhere south of him a slim black galley was
racing toward the ports of Stygia. That night, before darkness shut
down, the lookout's last glimpse showed him the racing-galley on the
horizon, and at dawn it was still hanging on their tail, afar off, tiny
in the distance. Conan wondered if it was following him, though he could
think of no logical reason for such a supposition. But he paid little
heed.

Each day that carried him farther southward filled him with fiercer
impatience. Doubts never assailed him. As he believed in the rise and
set of the sun he believed that a priest of Set had stolen the Heart of
Ahriman. And where would a priest of Set carry it but to Stygia? The
blacks sensed his eagerness, and toiled as they had never toiled under
the lash, though ignorant of his goal. They anticipated a red career of
pillage and plunder and were content. The men of the southern isles knew
no other trade; and the Kushites of the crew joined whole-heartedly in
the prospect of looting their own people, with the callousness of their
race. Blood-ties meant little; a victorious chieftain and personal gain
everything.

Soon the character of the coastline changed. No longer they sailed past
steep cliffs with blue hills marching behind them. Now the shore was the
edge of broad meadowlands which barely rose above the water's edge and
swept away and away into the hazy distance. Here were few harbors and
fewer ports, but the green plain was dotted with the cities of the
Shemites; green sea, lapping the rim of the green plains, and the
ziggurats of the cities gleaming whitely in the sun, some small in the
distance.

Through the grazing-lands moved the herds of cattle, and squat, broad
riders with cylindrical helmets and curled blue-black beards, with bows
in their hands. This was the shore of the lands of Shem, where there was
no law save as each city-state could enforce its own. Far to the
eastward, Conan knew, the meadowlands gave way to desert, where there
were no cities and the nomadic tribes roamed unhindered.

Still as they plied southward, past the changeless panorama of
city-dotted meadowland, at last the scenery again began to alter. Clumps
of tamarind appeared, the palm groves grew denser. The shoreline became
more broken, a marching rampart of green fronds and trees, and behind
them rose bare, sandy hills. Streams poured into the sea, and along
their moist banks vegetation grew thick and of vast variety.

So at last they passed the mouth of a broad river that mingled its flow
with the ocean, and saw the great black walls and towers of Khemi rise
against the southern horizon.

The river was the Styx, the real border of Stygia. Khemi was Stygia's
greatest port, and at that time her most important city. The king dwelt
at more ancient Luxur, but in Khemi reigned the priestcraft; though men
said the center of their dark religion lay far inland, in a mysterious,
deserted city near the bank of the Styx. This river, springing from some
nameless source far in the unknown lands south of Stygia, ran northward
for a thousand miles before it turned and flowed westward for some
hundreds of miles, to empty at last into the ocean.

The _Venturer_, showing no lights, stole past the port in the night, and
before dawn discovered her, anchored in a small bay a few miles south of
the city. It was surrounded by marsh, a green tangle of mangroves, palms
and lianas, swarming with crocodiles and serpents. Discovery was
extremely unlikely. Conan knew the place of old; he had hidden there
before, in his corsair days.

As they slid silently past the city whose great black bastions rose on
the jutting prongs of land which locked the harbor, torches gleamed and
smoldered luridly, and to their ears came the low thunder of drums. The
port was not crowded with ships, as were the harbors of Argos. The
Stygians did not base their glory and power upon ships and fleets.
Trading-vessels and war-galleys, indeed, they had, but not in proportion
to their inland strength. Many of their craft plied up and down the
great river, rather than along the sea-coasts.

The Stygians were an ancient race, a dark, inscrutable people, powerful
and merciless. Long ago their rule had stretched far north of the Styx,
beyond the meadowlands of Shem, and into the fertile uplands now
inhabited by the peoples of Koth and Ophir and Argos. Their borders had
marched with those of ancient Acheron. But Acheron had fallen, and the
barbaric ancestors of the Hyborians had swept southward in wolfskins and
horned helmets, driving the ancient rulers of the land before them. The
Stygians had not forgotten.

