The Nemedians fought as gallantly as their traditions of high courage
demanded. But they could not break the iron wedge, and from the wooded
knolls on either hand arrows raked their close-packed ranks mercilessly.
Their own bowmen were useless, their pikemen unable to climb the heights
and come to grips with the Bossonians. Slowly, stubbornly, sullenly, the
grim knights fell back, counting their empty saddles. Above them the
Gundermen made no outcry of triumph. They closed their ranks, locking up
the gaps made by the fallen. Sweat ran into their eyes from under their
steel caps. They gripped their spears and waited, their fierce hearts
swelling with pride that a king should fight on foot with them. Behind
them the Aquilonian knights had not moved. They sat their steeds, grimly
immobile.

A knight spurred a sweating horse up the hill called the King's Altar,
and glared at Xaltotun with bitter eyes.

'Amalric bids me say that it is time to use your magic, wizard,' he
said. 'We are dying like flies down there in the valley. We cannot break
their ranks.'

Xaltotun seemed to expand, to grow tall and awesome and terrible.

'Return to Amalric,' he said. 'Tell him to re-form his ranks for a
charge, but to await my signal. Before that signal is given he will see
a sight that he will remember until he lies dying!'

The knight saluted as if compelled against his will, and thundered down
the hill at breakneck pace.

Xaltotun stood beside the dark altar-stone and stared across the valley,
at the dead and wounded men on the terraces, at the grim, blood-stained
band at the head of the slopes, at the dusty, steel-clad ranks reforming
in the vale below. He glanced up at the sky, and he glanced down at the
slim white figure on the dark stone. And lifting a dagger inlaid with
archaic hieroglyphs, he intoned an immemorial invocation:

'Set, god of darkness, scaly lord of the shadows, by the blood of a
virgin and the sevenfold symbol I call to your sons below the black
earth! Children of the deeps, below the red earth, under the black
earth, awaken and shake your awful manes! Let the hills rock and the
stones topple upon my enemies! Let the sky grow dark above them, the
earth unstable beneath their feet! Let a wind from the deep black earth
curl up beneath their feet, and blacken and shrivel them----'

He halted short, dagger lifted. In the tense silence the roar of the
hosts rose beneath him, borne on the wind.

On the other side of the altar stood a man in a black hooded robe, whose
coif shadowed pale delicate features and dark eyes calm and meditative.

'Dog of Asura!' whispered Xaltotun, his voice was like the hiss of an
angered serpent. 'Are you mad, that you seek your doom? Ho, Baal!
Chiron!'

'Call again, dog of Acheron!' said the other, and laughed. 'Summon them
loudly. They will not hear, unless your shouts reverberate in hell.'

From a thicket on the edge of the crest came a somber old woman in
peasant garb, her hair flowing over her shoulders, a great gray wolf
following at her heels.

'Witch, priest and wolf,' muttered Xaltotun grimly, and laughed. 'Fools,
to pit your charlatan's mummery against my arts! With a wave of my hand
I brush you from my path!'

'Your arts are straws in the wind, dog of Python,' answered the Asurian.
'Have you wondered why the Shirki did not come down in flood and trap
Conan on the other bank? When I saw the lightning in the night I guessed
your plan, and my spells dispersed the clouds you had summoned before
they could empty their torrents. You did not even know that your
rain-making wizardry had failed.'

'You lie!' cried Xaltotun, but the confidence in his voice was shaken.
'I have felt the impact of a powerful sorcery against mine--but no man
on earth could undo the rain-magic, once made, unless he possessed the
very heart of sorcery.'

'But the flood you plotted did not come to pass,' answered the priest.
'Look at your allies in the valley, Pythonian! You have led them to the
slaughter! They are caught in the fangs of the trap, and you cannot aid
them. Look!'

He pointed. Out of the narrow gorge of the upper valley, behind the
Poitanians, a horseman came flying, whirling something about his head
that flashed in the sun. Recklessly he hurtled down the slopes, through
the ranks of the Gundermen, who sent up a deep-throated roar and clashed
their spears and shields like thunder in the hills. On the terraces
between the hosts the sweat-soaked horse reared and plunged, and his
wild rider yelled and brandished the thing in his hands like one
demented. It was the torn remnant of a scarlet banner, and the sun
struck dazzlingly on the golden scales of a serpent that writhed
thereon.

'Valerius is dead!' cried Hadrathus ringingly. 'A fog and a drum lured
him to his doom! I gathered that fog, dog of Python, and I dispersed it!
I, with my magic which is greater than your magic!'

'What matters it?' roared Xaltotun, a terrible sight, his eyes blazing,
his features convulsed. 'Valerius was a fool. I do not need him. I can
crush Conan without human aid!'

'Why have you delayed?' mocked Hadrathus. 'Why have you allowed so many
of your allies to fall pierced by arrows and spitted on spears?'

'Because blood aids great sorcery!' thundered Xaltotun, in a voice that
made the rocks quiver. A lurid nimbus played about his awful head.
'Because no wizard wastes his strength thoughtlessly. Because I would
conserve my powers for the great days to be, rather than employ them in
a hill-country brawl. But now, by Set, I shall loose them to the
uttermost! Watch, dog of Asura, false priest of an outworn god, and see
a sight that shall blast your reason for evermore!'

Hadrathus threw back his head and laughed, and hell was in his laughter.

'Look, black devil of Python!'

His hand came from under his robe holding something that flamed and
burned in the sun, changing the light to a pulsing golden glow in which
the flesh of Xaltotun looked like the flesh of a corpse.

