'You lie,' said the Khitan calmly. 'He spoke of the king of Aquilonia.
I read it in your expression. Sit upon that divan and do not move or
speak. I will remain with you while my three companions go search for
the body.'

So Publio sat and shook with terror of the silent, inscrutable figure
which watched him, until the three Khitans filed back into the room,
with the news that Conan's body did not lie upon the sands. Publio did
not know whether to be glad or sorry.

'We found the spot where the fight was fought,' they said. 'Blood was on
the sand. But the king was gone.'

The fourth Khitan drew imaginary symbols upon the carpet with his staff,
which glistened scalily in the lamplight.

'Did you read naught from the sands?' he asked.

'Aye,' they answered. 'The king lives, and he has gone southward in a
ship.'

The tall Khitan lifted his head and gazed at Publio, so that the
merchant broke into a profuse sweat.

'What do you wish of me?' he stuttered.

'A ship,' answered the Khitan. 'A ship well manned for a very long
voyage.'

'For how long a voyage?' stammered Publio, never thinking of refusing.

'To the ends of the world, perhaps,' answered the Khitan, 'or to the
molten seas of hell that lie beyond the sunrise.'

15 - THE RETURN OF THE CORSAIR
The Return of the Corsair

Conan's first sensation of returning consciousness was that of motion;
under him was no solidity, but a ceaseless heaving and plunging. Then he
heard wind humming through cords and spars, and knew he was aboard a
ship even before his blurred sight cleared. He heard a mutter of voices
and then a dash of water deluged him, jerking him sharply into full
animation. He heaved up with a sulphurous curse, braced his legs and
glared about him, with a burst of coarse guffaws in his ears and the
reek of unwashed bodies in his nostrils.

He was standing on the poopdeck of a long galley which was running
before the wind that whipped down from the north, her striped sail
bellying against the taut sheets. The sun was just rising, in a dazzling
blaze of gold and blue and green. To the left of the shoreline was a dim
purple shadow. To the right stretched the open ocean. This much Conan
saw at a glance that likewise included the ship itself.

It was long and narrow, a typical trading-ship of the southern coasts,
high of poop and stern, with cabins at either extremity. Conan looked
down into the open waist, whence wafted that sickening abominable odor.
He knew it of old. It was the body-scent of the oarsmen, chained to
their benches. They were all negroes, forty men to each side, each
confined by a chain locked about his waist, with the other end welded to
a heavy ring set deep in the solid runway beam that ran between the
benches from stem to stern. The life of a slave aboard an Argossean
galley was a hell unfathomable. Most of these were Kushites, but some
thirty of the blacks who now rested on their idle oars and stared up at
the stranger with dull curiosity were from the far southern isles, the
homelands of the corsairs. Conan recognized them by their straighter
features and hair, their rangier, cleaner-limbed build. And he saw among
them men who had followed him of old.

But all this he saw and recognized in one swift, all-embracing glance as
he rose, before he turned his attention to the figures about him.
Reeling momentarily on braced legs, his fists clenched wrathfully, he
glared at the figures clustered about him. The sailor who had drenched
him stood grinning, the empty bucket still poised in his hand, and Conan
cursed him with venom, instinctively reaching for his hilt. Then he
discovered that he was weaponless and naked except for his short leather
breeks.

'What lousy tub is this?' he roared. 'How did I come aboard here?'

The sailors laughed jeeringly--stocky, bearded Argosseans to a man--and
one, whose richer dress and air of command proclaimed him captain,
folded his arms and said domineeringly: 'We found you lying on the
sands. Somebody had rapped you on the pate and taken your clothes.
Needing an extra man, we brought you aboard.'

'What ship is this?' Conan demanded.

'The _Venturer_, out of Messantia, with a cargo of mirrors, scarlet silk
cloaks, shields, gilded helmets and swords to trade to the Shemites for
copper and gold ore. I am Demetrio, captain of this vessel and your
master henceforward.'

'Then I'm headed in the direction I wanted to go, after all,' muttered
Conan, heedless of that last remark. They were racing southeastward,
following the long curve of the Argossean coast. These trading-ships
never ventured far from the shoreline. Somewhere ahead of him he knew
that low dark Stygian galley was speeding southward.

'Have you sighted a Stygian galley--' began Conan, but the beard of the
burly, brutal-faced captain bristled. He was not in the least interested
in any question his prisoner might wish to ask, and felt it high time he
reduced this independent wastrel to his proper place.

'Get for'ard!' he roared. 'I've wasted time enough with you! I've done
you the honor of having you brought to the poop to be revived, and
answered enough of your infernal questions. Get off this poop! You'll
work your way aboard this galley--'

'I'll buy your ship--' began Conan, before he remembered that he was a
penniless wanderer.

A roar of rough mirth greeted these words, and the captain turned
purple, thinking he sensed ridicule.

'You mutinous swine!' he bellowed, taking a threatening step forward,
while his hand closed on the knife at his belt. 'Get for'ard before I
have you flogged! You'll keep a civil tongue in your jaws, or by Mitra,
I'll have you chained among the blacks to tug an oar!'

Conan's volcanic temper, never long at best, burst into explosion. Not
in years, even before he was king, had a man spoken to him thus and
lived.

'Don't lift your voice to me, you tar-breeched dog!' he roared in a
voice as gusty as the sea-wind, while the sailors gaped dumfounded.
'Draw that toy and I'll feed you to the fishes!'

'Who do you think you are?' gasped the captain.

