'If we caught Conan in Shirki valley with the hill ridges to his right
and the river in flood to his left,' he admitted, 'with our whole force
we could annihilate him. Do you think--are you sure--do you believe such
rains will fall?'

'I go to my tent,' answered Xaltotun, rising. 'Necromancy is not
accomplished by the waving of a wand. Send a rider to Tarascus. And let
none approach my tent.'

That last command was unnecessary. No man in that host could have been
bribed to approach that mysterious black silken pavilion, the door-flaps
of which were always closely drawn. None but Xaltotun ever entered it,
yet voices were often heard issuing from it; its walls billowed
sometimes without a wind, and weird music came from it. Sometimes, deep
in midnight, its silken walls were lit red by flames flickering within,
limning misshapen silhouettes that passed to and fro.

Lying in his own tent that night, Amalric heard the steady rumble of a
drum in Xaltotun's tent; through the darkness it boomed steadily, and
occasionally the Nemedian could have sworn that a deep, croaking voice
mingled with the pulse of the drum. And he shuddered, for he knew that
voice was not the voice of Xaltotun. The drum rustled and muttered on
like deep thunder, heard afar off, and before dawn Amalric glancing from
his tent, caught the red flicker of lightning afar on the northern
horizon. In all other parts of the sky the great stars blazed whitely.
But the distant lightning flickered incessantly, like the crimson glint
of firelight on a tiny, turning blade.

       *       *       *       *       *

At sunset of the next day Tarascus came up with his host, dusty and
weary from hard marching, the footmen straggling hours behind the
horsemen. They camped in the plain near Amalric's camp, and at dawn the
combined army moved westward.

Ahead of him roved a swarm of scouts, and Amalric waited impatiently for
them to return and tell of the Poitanians trapped beside a furious
flood. But when the scouts met the column it was with the news that
Conan had crossed the river!

'What?' exclaimed Amalric. 'Did he cross before the flood?'

'There was no flood,' answered the scouts, puzzled. 'Late last night he
came up to Tanasul and flung his army across.'

'No flood?' exclaimed Xaltotun, taken aback for the first time in
Amalric's knowledge. 'Impossible! There were mighty rains upon the
headwaters of the Shirki last night and the night before that!'

'That may be your lordship,' answered the scout. 'It is true the water
was muddy, and the people of Tanasul said that the river rose perhaps a
foot yesterday; but that was not enough to prevent Conan's crossing.'

Xaltotun's sorcery had failed! The thought hammered in Amalric's brain.
His horror of this strange man out of the past had grown steadily since
that night in Belverus when he had seen a brown, shriveled mummy swell
and grow into a living man. And the death of Orastes had changed lurking
horror into active fear. In his heart was a grisly conviction that the
man--or devil--was invincible. Yet now he had undeniable proof of his
failure.

Yet even the greatest of necromancers might fail occasionally, thought
the baron. At any rate, he dared not oppose the man from Acheron--yet.
Orastes was dead, writhing in Mitra only knew what nameless hell, and
Amalric knew his sword would scarcely prevail where the black wisdom of
the renegade priest had failed. What grisly abomination Xaltotun plotted
lay in the unpredictable future. Conan and his host were a present
menace against which Xaltotun's wizardry might well be needed before the
play was all played.

       *       *       *       *       *

They came to Tanasul, a small fortified village at the spot where a reef
of rocks made a natural bridge across the river, passable always except
in times of greatest flood. Scouts brought in the news that Conan had
taken up his position in the Goralian hills, which began to rise a few
miles beyond the river. And just before sundown the Gundermen had
arrived in his camp.

Amalric looked at Xaltotun, inscrutable and alien in the light of the
flaring torches. Night had fallen.

'What now? Your magic has failed. Conan confronts us with an army nearly
as strong as our own, and he has the advantage of position. We have a
choice of two evils: to camp here and await his attack, or to fall back
toward Tarantia and await reinforcements.'

'We are ruined if we wait,' answered Xaltotun. 'Cross the river and camp
on the plain. We will attack at dawn.'

'But his position is too strong!' exclaimed Amalric.

'Fool!' A gust of passion broke the veneer of the wizard's calm. 'Have
you forgotten Valkia? Because some obscure elemental principle prevented
the flood do you deem me helpless? I had intended that your spears
should exterminate our enemies; but do not fear: it is my arts that
shall crush their host. Conan is in a trap. He will never see another
sun set. Cross the river!'

They crossed by the flare of torches. The hoofs of the horses clinked on
the rocky bridge, splashed through the shallows. The glint of the
torches on shields and breast-plates was reflected redly in the black
water. The rock bridge was broad on which they crossed, but even so it
was past midnight before the host was camped in the plain beyond. Above
them they could see fires winking redly in the distance. Conan had
turned at bay in the Goralian hills, which had more than once before
served as the last stand of an Aquilonian king.

Amalric left his pavilion and strode restlessly through the camp. A
weird glow flickered in Xaltotun's tent, and from time to time a
demoniacal cry slashed the silence, and there was a low sinister
muttering of a drum that rustled rather than rumbled.

Amalric, his instincts whetted by the night and the circumstances, felt
that Xaltotun was opposed by more than physical force. Doubts of the
wizard's power assailed him. He glanced at the fires high above him, and
his face set in grim lines. He and his army were deep in the midst of a
hostile country. Up there among those hills lurked thousands of wolfish
figures out of whose hearts and souls all emotion and hope had been
scourged except a frenzied hate for their conquerors, a mad lust for
vengeance. Defeat meant annihilation, retreat through a land swarming
with blood-mad enemies. And on the morrow he must hurl his host against
the grimmest fighter in the western nations, and his desperate horde. If
Xaltotun failed them now--

