'Who am I, even I, Thutothmes, to know what powers lurk and dream in
those crimson deeps? It holds secrets forgotten for three thousand
years. But I shall learn. These shall tell me!'

He waved his hand toward the silent shapes that lined the hall.

'See how they sleep, staring through their carven masks! Kings, queens,
generals, priests, wizards, the dynasties and the nobility of Stygia for
ten thousand years! The touch of the heart will awaken them from their
long slumber. Long, long the Heart throbbed and pulsed in ancient
Stygia. Here was its home in the centuries before it journeyed to
Acheron. The ancients knew its full power, and they will tell me when by
its magic I restore them to life to labor for me.

'I will rouse them, will waken them, will learn their forgotten wisdom,
the knowledge locked in those withered skulls. By the lore of the dead
we shall enslave the living! Aye, kings and generals and wizards of old
shall be our helpers and our slaves. Who shall stand before us?

'Look! This dried, shriveled thing on the altar was once Thothmekri, a
high priest of Set, who died three thousand years ago. He was an adept
of the Black Ring. He knew of the Heart. He will tell us of its powers.'

Lifting the great jewel, the speaker laid it on the withered breast of
the mummy, and lifted his hand as he began an incantation. But the
incantation was never finished. With his hand lifted and his lips parted
he froze, glaring past his acolytes, and they wheeled to stare in the
direction in which he was looking.

Through the black arch of a door four gaunt, black-robed shapes had
filed into the great hall. Their faces were dim yellow ovals in the
shadow of their hoods.

'Who are you?' ejaculated Thutothmes in a voice as pregnant with danger
as the hiss of a cobra. 'Are you mad, to invade the holy shrine of Set?'

The tallest of the strangers spoke, and his voice was toneless as a
Khitan temple bell.

'We follow Conan of Aquilonia.'

'He is not here,' answered Thutothmes, shaking back his mantle from his
right hand with a curious menacing gesture, like a panther unsheathing
his talons.

'You lie. He is in this temple. We tracked him from a corpse behind the
bronze door of the outer portal through a maze of corridors. We were
following his devious trail when we became aware of this conclave. We go
now to take it up again. But first give us the Heart of Ahriman.'

'Death is the portion of madmen,' murmured Thutothmes, moving nearer the
speaker. His priests closed in on cat-like feet, but the strangers did
not appear to heed.

'Who can look upon it without desire?' said the Khitan. 'In Khitai we
have heard of it. It will give us power over the people which cast us
out. Glory and wonder dream in its crimson deeps. Give it to us, before
we slay you.'

A fierce cry rang out as a priest leaped with a flicker of steel. Before
he could strike, a scaly staff licked out and touched his breast, and he
fell as a dead man falls. In an instant the mummies were staring down on
a scene of blood and horror. Curved knives flashed and crimsoned, snaky
staffs licked in and out, and whenever they touched a man, that man
screamed and died.

At the first stroke Conan had bounded up and was racing down the stairs.
He caught only glimpses of that brief, fiendish fight--saw men swaying,
locked in battle and streaming blood; saw one Khitan, fairly hacked to
pieces, yet still on his feet and dealing death, when Thutothmes smote
him on the breast with his open empty hand, and he dropped dead, though
naked steel had not been enough to destroy his uncanny vitality.

By the time Conan's hurtling feet left the stair, the fight was all but
over. Three of the Khitans were down, slashed and cut to ribbons and
disemboweled, but of the Stygians only Thutothmes remained on his feet.

He rushed at the remaining Khitan, his empty hand lifted like a weapon,
and that hand was black as that of a negro. But before he could strike,
the staff in the tall Khitan's hand licked out, seeming to elongate
itself as the yellow man thrust. The point touched the bosom of
Thutothmes and he staggered; again and yet again the staff licked out,
and Thutothmes reeled and fell dead, his features blotted out in a rush
of blackness that made the whole of him the same hue as his enchanted
hand.

The Khitan turned toward the jewel that burned on the breast of the
mummy, but Conan was before him.

In a tense stillness the two faced each other, amid that shambles, with
the carven mummies staring down upon them.

'Far have I followed you, oh king of Aquilonia,' said the Khitan calmly.
'Down the long river, and over the mountains, across Poitain and Zingara
and through the hills of Argos and down the coast. Not easily did we
pick up your trail from Tarantia, for the priests of Asura are crafty.
We lost it in Zingara, but we found your helmet in the forest below the
border hills, where you had fought with the ghouls of the forests.
Almost we lost the trail again tonight among these labyrinths.'

Conan reflected that he had been fortunate in returning from the
vampire's chamber by another route than that by which he had been led to
it. Otherwise he would have run full into these yellow fiends instead
of sighting them from afar as they smelled out his spoor like human
bloodhounds, with whatever uncanny gift was theirs.

The Khitan shook his head slightly, as if reading his mind.

'That is meaningless; the long trail ends here.'

'Why have you hounded me?' demanded Conan, poised to move in any
direction with the celerity of a hair-trigger.

'It was a debt to pay,' answered the Khitan. 'To you who are about to
die, I will not withhold knowledge. We were vassals of the king of
Aquilonia, Valerius. Long we served him, but of that service we are free
now--my brothers by death, and I by the fulfilment of obligation. I
shall return to Aquilonia with two hearts; for myself the Heart of
Ahriman; for Valerius the heart of Conan. A kiss of the staff that was
cut from the living Tree of Death--'

