       *       *       *       *       *

All day the _Venturer_ lay at anchor in the tiny bay, walled in with
green branches and tangled vines through which flitted gay-plumed,
harsh-voiced birds, and among which glided bright-scaled, silent
reptiles. Toward sundown a small boat crept out and down along the
shore, seeking and finding that which Conan desired--a Stygian fisherman
in his shallow, flat-prowed boat.

They brought him to the deck of the _Venturer_--a tall, dark, rangily
built man, ashy with fear of his captors, who were ogres of that coast.
He was naked except for his silken breeks, for, like the Hyrkanians,
even the commoners and slaves of Stygia wore silk; and in his boat was a
wide mantle such as these fishermen flung about their shoulders against
the chill of the night.

He fell to his knees before Conan, expecting torture and death.

'Stand on your legs, man, and quit trembling,' said the Cimmerian
impatiently, who found it difficult to understand abject terror. 'You
won't be harmed. Tell me but this: has a galley, a black racing-galley
returning from Argos, put into Khemi within the last few days?'

'Aye, my lord,' answered the fisherman. 'Only yesterday at dawn the
priest Thutothmes returned from a voyage far to the north. Men say he
has been to Messantia.'

'What did he bring from Messantia?'

'Alas, my lord, I know not.'

'Why did he go to Messantia?' demanded Conan.

'Nay, my lord, I am but a common man. Who am I to know the minds of the
priests of Set? I can only speak what I have seen and what I have heard
men whisper along the wharves. Men say that news of great import came
southward, though of what none knows; and it is well known that the lord
Thutothmes put off in his black galley in great haste. Now he is
returned, but what he did in Argos, or what cargo he brought back, none
knows, not even the seamen who manned his galley. Men say that he has
opposed Thoth-Amon, who is the master of all priests of Set, and dwells
in Luxur, and that Thutothmes seeks hidden power to overthrow the Great
One. But who am I to say? When priests war with one another a common man
can but lie on his belly and hope neither treads upon him.'

Conan snarled in nervous exasperation at this servile philosophy, and
turned to his men. 'I'm going alone into Khemi to find this thief
Thutothmes. Keep this man prisoner, but see that you do him no hurt.
Crom's devils, stop your yowling! Do you think we can sail into the
harbor and take the city by storm? I must go alone.'

Silencing the clamor of protests, he doffed his own garments and donned
the prisoner's silk breeches and sandals, and the band from the man's
hair, but scorned the short fisherman's knife. The common men of Stygia
were not allowed to wear swords, and the mantle was not voluminous
enough to hide the Cimmerian's long blade, but Conan buckled to his hip
a Ghanata knife, a weapon borne by the fierce desert men who dwelt to
the south of the Stygians, a broad, heavy, slightly curved blade of fine
steel, edged like a razor and long enough to dismember a man.

Then, leaving the Stygian guarded by the corsairs, Conan climbed into
the fisher's boat.

'Wait for me until dawn,' he said. 'If I haven't come then, I'll never
come, so hasten southward to your own homes.'

As he clambered over the rail, they set up a doleful wail at his going,
until he thrust his head back into sight to curse them into silence.
Then, dropping into the boat, he grasped the oars and sent the tiny
craft shooting over the waves more swiftly than its owner had ever
propelled it.

17 - 'HE HAS SLAIN THE SACRED SON OF SET!'
'He Has Slain the Sacred Son of Set!'

The harbor of Khemi lay between two great jutting points of land that
ran into the ocean. He rounded the southern point, where the great black
castles rose like a man-made hill, and entered the harbor just at dusk,
when there was still enough light for the watchers to recognize the
fisherman's boat and mantle, but not enough to permit recognition of
betraying details. Unchallenged he threaded his way among the great
black war galleys lying silent and unlighted at anchor, and drew up to a
flight of wide stone steps which mounted up from the water's edge. There
he made his boat fast to an iron ring set in the stone, as numerous
similar craft were tied. There was nothing strange in a fisherman
leaving his boat there. None but a fisherman could find a use for such a
craft, and they did not steal from one another.

No one cast him more than a casual glance as he mounted the long steps,
unobtrusively avoiding the torches that flared at intervals above the
lapping black water. He seemed but an ordinary, empty-handed fisherman,
returning after a fruitless day along the coast. If one had observed him
closely, it might have seemed that his step was somewhat too springy and
sure, his carriage somewhat too erect and confident for a lowly
fisherman. But he passed quickly, keeping in the shadows, and the
commoners of Stygia were no more given to analysis than were the
commoners of the less exotic races.

In build he was not unlike the warrior casts of the Stygians, who were a
tall, muscular race. Bronzed by the sun, he was nearly as dark as many
of them. His black hair, square-cut and confined by a copper band,
increased the resemblance. The characteristics which set him apart from
them were the subtle difference in his walk, and his alien features and
blue eyes.

But the mantle was a good disguise, and he kept as much in the shadows
as possible, turning away his head when a native passed him too closely.

But it was a desperate game, and he knew he could not long keep up the
deception. Khemi was not like the sea-ports of the Hyborians, where
types of every race swarmed. The only aliens here were negro and Shemite
slaves; and he resembled neither even as much as he resembled the
Stygians themselves. Strangers were not welcome in the cities of Stygia;
tolerated only when they came as ambassadors or licensed traders. But
even then the latter were not allowed ashore after dark. And now there
were no Hyborian ships in the harbor at all. A strange restlessness ran
through the city, a stirring of ancient ambitions, a whispering none
could define except those who whispered. This Conan felt rather than
knew, his whetted primitive instincts sensing unrest about him.

