So Conan came presently to the castle of Count Trocero....

       *       *       *       *       *

Conan sat on a silken divan in a rich chamber whose filmy curtains the
warm breeze billowed. Trocero paced the floor like a panther, a lithe,
restless man with the waist of a woman and the shoulders of a swordsman,
who carried his years lightly.

'Let us proclaim you king of Poitain!' urged the count. 'Let those
northern pigs wear the yoke to which they have bent their necks. The
south is still yours. Dwell here and rule us, amid the flowers and the
palms.'

But Conan shook his head. 'There is no nobler land on earth than
Poitain. But it cannot stand alone, bold as are its sons.'

'It _did_ stand alone for generations,' retorted Trocero, with the quick
jealous pride of his breed. 'We were not always a part of Aquilonia.'

'I know. But conditions are not as they were then, when all kingdoms
were broken into principalities which warred with each other. The days
of dukedoms and free cities are past, the days of empires are upon us.
Rulers are dreaming imperial dreams, and only in unity is there
strength.'

'Then let us unite Zingara with Poitain,' argued Trocero. 'Half a dozen
princes strive against each other, and the country is torn asunder by
civil wars. We will conquer it, province by province, and add it to your
dominions. Then with the aid of the Zingarans we will conquer Argos and
Ophir. We will build an empire--'

Again Conan shook his head. 'Let others dream imperial dreams. I but
wish to hold what is mine. I have no desire to rule an empire welded
together by blood and fire. It's one thing to seize a throne with the
aid of its subjects and rule them with their consent. It's another to
subjugate a foreign realm and rule it by fear. I don't wish to be
another Valerius. No, Trocero, I'll rule all Aquilonia and no more, or
I'll rule nothing.'

'Then lead us over the mountains and we will smite the Nemedians.'

Conan's fierce eyes glowed with appreciation.

'No, Trocero. It would be a vain sacrifice. I've told you what I must do
to regain my kingdom. I must find the Heart of Ahriman.'

'But this is madness!' protested Trocero, 'The maunderings of a
heretical priest, the mumblings of a mad witch-woman.'

'You were not in my tent before Valkia,' answered Conan grimly,
involuntarily glancing at his right wrist, on which blue marks still
showed faintly. 'You didn't see the cliffs thunder down to crush the
flower of my army. No, Trocero, I've been convinced. Xaltotun's no
mortal man, and only with the Heart of Ahriman can I stand against him.
So I'm riding to Kordava, alone.'

'But that is dangerous,' protested Trocero.

'Life is dangerous,' rumbled the king. 'I won't go as king of Aquilonia,
or even as a knight of Poitain, but as a wandering mercenary, as I rode
in Zingara in the old days. Oh, I have enemies enough south of the
Alimane, in the lands and the waters of the south. Many who won't know
me as king of Aquilonia will remember me as Conan of the Barachan
pirates, or Amra of the black corsairs. But I have friends, too, and men
who'll aid me for their own private reasons.' A faintly reminiscent grin
touched his lips.

Trocero dropped his hands helplessly and glanced at Albiona, who sat on
a near-by divan.

'I understand your doubts, my lord,' said she. 'But I too saw the coin
in the temple of Asura, and look you, Hadrathus said it was dated five
hundred years _before_ the fall of Acheron. If Xaltotun, then, is the
man pictured on the coin, as his Majesty swears he is, that means he was
no common wizard, even in his other life, for the years of his life were
numbered by centuries, not as the lives of other men are numbered.'

Before Trocero could reply, a respectful rap was heard on the door and a
voice called: 'My lord, we have caught a man skulking about the castle,
who says he wishes to speak with your guest. I await your orders.'

'A spy from Aquilonia!' hissed Trocero, catching at his dagger, but
Conan lifted his voice and called: 'Open the door and let me see him.'

The door was opened and a man was framed in it, grasped on either hand
by stern-looking men-at-arms. He was a slender man, clad in a dark
hooded robe.

'Are you a follower of Asura?' asked Conan.

The man nodded, and the stalwart men-at-arms looked shocked and glanced
hesitantly at Trocero.

'The word came southward,' said the man. 'Beyond the Alimane we can not
aid you, for our sect goes no farther southward, but stretches eastward
with the Khorotas. But this I have learned: the thief who took the Heart
of Ahriman from Tarascus never reached Kordava. In the mountains of
Poitain he was slain by robbers. The jewel fell into the hands of their
chief, who, not knowing its true nature, and being harried after the
destruction of his band by Poitanian knights, sold it to the Kothic
merchant Zorathus.'

'Ha!' Conan was on his feet, galvanized. 'And what of Zorathus?'

'Four days ago he crossed the Alimane, headed for Argos, with a small
band of armed servants.'

'He's a fool to cross Zingara in such times,' said Trocero.

'Aye, times are troublous across the river. But Zorathus is a bold man,
and reckless in his way. He is in great haste to reach Messantia, where
he hopes to find a buyer for the jewel. Perhaps he hopes to sell it
finally in Stygia. Perhaps he guesses at its true nature. At any rate,
instead of following the long road that winds along the borders of
Poitain and so at last comes into Argos far from Messantia, he has
struck straight across eastern Zingara, following the shorter and more
direct route.'

Conan smote the table with his clenched fist so that the great board
quivered.

'Then, by Crom, fortune has at last thrown the dice for me! A horse,
Trocero, and the harness of a Free Companion! Zorathus has a long start,
but not too long for me to overtake him, if I follow him to the end of
the world!'

