Conan shrugged his shoulders, and turned toward the farther grille. This
might be some diabolical trap planned by Tarascus, but plunging headlong
into a snare was less abhorrent to Conan's temperament than sitting
meekly to await his doom. He inspected the weapon the girl had given
him, and smiled grimly. Whatever else she might be, she was proven by
that dagger to be a person of practical intelligence. It was no slender
stiletto, selected because of a jeweled hilt or gold guard, fitted only
for dainty murder in milady's boudoir; it was a forthright poniard, a
warrior's weapon, broad-bladed, fifteen inches in length, tapering to a
diamond-sharp point.

He grunted with satisfaction. The feel of the hilt cheered him and gave
him a glow of confidence. Whatever webs of conspiracy were drawn about
him, whatever trickery and treachery ensnared him, this knife was real.
The great muscles of his right arm swelled in anticipation of murderous
blows.

He tried the farther door, fumbling with the keys as he did so. It was
not locked. Yet he remembered the black man locking it. That furtive,
bent figure, then, had been no jailer seeing that the bolts were in
place. He had unlocked the door, instead. There was a sinister
suggestion about that unlocked door. But Conan did not hesitate. He
pushed upon the grille and stepped from the dungeon into the outer
darkness.

As he had thought, the door did not open into another corridor. The
flagged floor stretched away under his feet, and the line of cells ran
away to the right and left behind him, but he could not make out the
other limits of the place into which he had come. He could see neither
the roof nor any other wall. The moonlight filtered into that vastness
only through the grilles of the cells, and was almost lost in the
darkness. Less keen eyes than his could scarcely have discerned the dim
gray patches that floated before each cell door.

Turning to the left, he moved swiftly and noiselessly along the line of
dungeons, his bare feet making no sound on the flags. He glanced briefly
into each dungeon as he passed it. They were all empty, but locked. In
some he caught the glimmer of naked white bones. These pits were a relic
of a grimmer age, constructed long ago when Belverus was a fortress
rather than a city. But evidently their more recent use had been more
extensive than the world guessed.

Ahead of him, presently, he saw the dim outline of a stair sloping
sharply upward, and knew it must be the stair he sought. Then he whirled
suddenly, crouching in the deep shadows at its foot.

Somewhere behind him something was moving--something bulky and stealthy
that padded on feet which were not human feet. He was looking down the
long row of cells, before each one of which lay a square of dim gray
light that was little more than a patch of less dense darkness. But he
saw something moving along these squares. What it was he could not tell,
but it was heavy and huge, and yet it moved with more than human ease
and swiftness. He glimpsed it as it moved across the squares of gray,
then lost it as it merged in the expanses of shadow between. It was
uncanny, in its stealthy advance, appearing and disappearing like a blur
of the vision.

He heard the bars rattle as it tried each door in turn. Now it had
reached the cell he had so recently quitted, and the door swung open as
it tugged. He saw a great bulky shape limned faintly and briefly in the
gray doorway, and then the thing had vanished into the dungeon. Sweat
beaded Conan's face and hands. Now he knew why Tarascus had come so
subtly to his door, and later had fled so swiftly. The king had unlocked
his door, and, somewhere in these hellish pits, had opened a cell or
cage that held some grim monstrosity.

Now the thing was emerging from the cell and was again advancing up the
corridor, its misshapen head close to the ground. It paid no more heed
to the locked doors. It was smelling out his trail. He saw it more
plainly now; the gray light limned a giant anthropomorphic body, but
vaster of bulk and girth than any man. It went on two legs, though it
stooped forward, and it was grayish and shaggy, its thick coat shot with
silver. Its head was a grisly travesty of the human, its long arms hung
nearly to the ground.

Conan knew it at last--understood the meaning of those crushed and
broken bones in the dungeon, and recognized the haunter of the pits. It
was a gray ape, one of the grisly man-eaters from the forests that wave
on the mountainous eastern shores of the Sea of Vilayet. Half mythical
and altogether horrible, these apes were the goblins of Hyborian
legendry, and were in reality ogres of the natural world, cannibals and
murderers of the nighted forests.

He knew it scented his presence, for it was coming swiftly now, rolling
its barrel-like body rapidly along on its short, mighty bowed legs. He
cast a quick glance up the long stair, but knew that the thing would be
on his back before he could mount to the distant door. He chose to meet
it face to face.

Conan stepped out into the nearest square of moonlight, so as to have
all the advantage of illumination that he could; for the beast, he knew,
could see better than himself in the dark. Instantly the brute saw him;
its great yellow tusks gleamed in the shadows, but it made no sound.
Creatures of night and the silence, the gray apes of Vilayet were
voiceless. But in its dim, hideous features, which were a bestial
travesty of a human face, showed ghastly exultation.

Conan stood poised, watching the oncoming monster without a quiver. He
knew he must stake his life on one thrust; there would be no chance for
another; nor would there be time to strike and spring away. The first
blow must kill, and kill instantly, if he hoped to survive that awful
grapple. He swept his gaze over the short, squat throat, the hairy
swagbelly, and the mighty breast, swelling in giant arches like twin
shields. It must be the heart; better to risk the blade being deflected
by the heavy ribs than to strike in where a stroke was not instantly
fatal. With full realization of the odds, Conan matched his speed of eye
and hand and his muscular power against the brute might and ferocity of
the man-eater. He must meet the brute breast to breast, strike a
death-blow, and then trust to the ruggedness of his frame to survive the
instant of manhandling that was certain to be his.

