If he were discovered his fate would be ghastly. They would slay him
merely for being a stranger; if he were recognized as Amra, the corsair
chief who had swept their coasts with steel and flame--an involuntary
shudder twitched Conan's broad shoulders. Human foes he did not fear,
nor any death by steel or fire. But this was a black land of sorcery and
nameless horror. Set the Old Serpent, men said, banished long ago from
the Hyborian races, yet lurked in the shadows of the cryptic temples,
and awful and mysterious were the deeds done in the nighted shrines.

He had drawn away from the waterfront streets with their broad steps
leading down to the water, and was entering the long shadowy streets of
the main part of the city. There was no such scene as was offered by any
Hyborian city--no blaze of lamps and cressets, with gay-clad people
laughing and strolling along the pavements, and shops and stalls wide
open and displaying their wares.

Here the stalls were closed at dusk. The only lights along the streets
were torches, flaring smokily at wide intervals. People walking the
streets were comparatively few; they went hurriedly and unspeaking, and
their numbers decreased with the lateness of the hour. Conan found the
scene gloomy and unreal; the silence of the people, their furtive haste,
the great black stone walls that rose on each side of the streets. There
was a grim massiveness about Stygian architecture that was overpowering
and oppressive.

Few lights showed anywhere except in the upper parts of the buildings.
Conan knew that most of the people lay on the flat roofs, among the
palms of artificial gardens under the stars. There was a murmur of weird
music from somewhere. Occasionally a bronze chariot rumbled along the
flags, and there was a brief glimpse of a tall, hawk-faced noble, with a
silk cloak wrapped about him, and a gold band with a rearing
serpent-head emblem confining his black mane; of the ebon, naked
charioteer bracing his knotty legs against the straining of the fierce
Stygian horses.

But the people who yet traversed the streets on foot were commoners,
slaves, tradesmen, harlots, toilers, and they became fewer as he
progressed. He was making toward the temple of Set, where he knew he
would be likely to find the priest he sought. He believed he would know
Thutothmes if he saw him, though his one glance had been in the
semi-darkness of the Messantian alley. That the man he had seen there
had been the priest he was certain. Only occultists high in the mazes of
the hideous Black Ring possessed the power of the black hand that dealt
death by its touch; and only such a man would dare defy Thoth-Amon, whom
the western world knew only as a figure of terror and myth.

The street broadened, and Conan was aware that he was getting into the
