It was a strong position. His flanks could not be turned, for that would
mean climbing the steep, wooded hills in the teeth of the arrows and
swords of the Bossonians. His camp lay directly behind him, in a narrow,
steep-walled valley which was indeed merely a continuation of the Valley
of Lions, pitching up at a higher level. He did not fear a surprise from
the rear, because the hills behind him were full of refugees and broken
men whose loyalty to him was beyond question.

But if his position was hard to shake, it was equally hard to escape
from. It was a trap as well as a fortress for the defenders, a desperate
last stand of men who did not expect to survive unless they were
victorious. The only line of retreat possible was through the narrow
valley at their rear.

       *       *       *       *       *

Xaltotun mounted a hill on the left side of the valley, near the wide
mouth. This hill rose higher than the others, and was known as the
King's Altar, for a reason long forgotten. Only Xaltotun knew, and his
memory dated back three thousand years.

He was not alone. His two familiars, silent, hairy, furtive and dark,
were with him, and they bore a young Aquilonian girl, bound hand and
foot. They laid her on an ancient stone, which was curiously like an
altar, and which crowned the summit of the hill. For long centuries it
had stood there, worn by the elements until many doubted that it was
anything but a curiously shapen natural rock. But what it was, and why
it stood there, Xaltotun remembered from of old. The familiars went
away, with their bent backs like silent gnomes, and Xaltotun stood alone
beside the altar, his dark beard blown in the wind, overlooking the
valley.

He could see clear back to the winding Shirki, and up into the hills
beyond the head of the valley. He could see the gleaming wedge of steel
drawn up at the head of the terraces, the burganets of the archers
glinting among the rocks and bushes, the silent knights motionless on
their steeds, their pennons flowing above their helmets, their lances
rising in a bristling thicket.

Looking in the other direction he could see the long serried lines of
the Nemedians moving in ranks of shining steel into the mouth of the
valley. Behind them the gay pavilions of the lords and knights and the
drab tents of the common soldiers stretched back almost to the river.

Like a river of molten steel the Nemedian host flowed into the valley,
the great scarlet dragon rippling over it. First marched the bowmen, in
even ranks, arbalests half raised, bolts nocked, fingers on triggers.
After them came the pikemen, and behind them the real strength of the
army--the mounted knights, their banners unfurled to the wind, their
lances lifted, walking their great steeds forward as if they rode to a
banquet.

And higher up on the slopes the smaller Aquilonian host stood grimly
silent.

There were thirty thousand Nemedian knights, and, as in most Hyborian
nations, it was the chivalry which was the sword of the army. The
footmen were used only to clear the way for a charge of the armored
knights. There were twenty-one thousand of these, pikemen and archers.

The bowmen began loosing as they advanced, without breaking ranks,
launching their quarrels with a whir and tang. But the bolts fell short
or rattled harmlessly from the overlapping shields of the Gundermen. And
before the arbalesters could come within killing range, the arching
shafts of the Bossonians were wreaking havoc in their ranks.

A little of this, a futile attempt at exchanging fire, and the Nemedian
bowmen began falling back in disorder. Their armor was light, their
weapons no match for the Bossonian longbows. The western archers were
sheltered by bushes and rocks. Moreover, the Nemedian footmen lacked
something of the morale of the horsemen, knowing as they did that they
were being used merely to clear the way for the knights.

The cross-bowmen fell back, and between their opening lines the pikemen
advanced. These were largely mercenaries, and their masters had no
compunction about sacrificing them. They were intended to mask the
advance of the knights until the latter were within smiting distance. So
while the arbalesters plied their bolts from either flank at long range,
the pikemen marched into the teeth of the blast from above, and behind
them the knights came on.

When the pikemen began to falter beneath the savage hail of death that
whistled down the slopes among them, a trumpet blew, their companies
divided to right and left, and through them the mailed knights
thundered.

They ran full into a cloud of stinging death. The clothyard shafts found
every crevice in their armor and the housings of the steeds. Horses
scrambling up the grassy terraces reared and plunged backward, bearing
their riders with them. Steel-clad forms littered the slopes. The charge
wavered and ebbed back.

Back down in the valley Amalric reformed his ranks. Tarascus was
fighting with drawn sword under the scarlet dragon, but it was the baron
of Tor who commanded that day. Amalric swore as he glanced at the forest
of lance-tips visible above and beyond the head-pieces of the Gundermen.
He had hoped his retirement would draw the knights out in a charge down
the slopes after him, to be raked from either flank by his bowmen and
swamped by the numbers of his horsemen. But they had not moved.
Camp-servants brought skins of water from the river. Knights doffed
their helmets and drenched their sweating heads. The wounded on the
slopes screamed vainly for water. In the upper valley, springs supplied
the defenders. They did not thirst that long, hot spring day.

On the King's Altar, beside the ancient, carven stone, Xaltotun watched
the steel tide ebb and flow. On came the knights, with waving plumes and
dipping lances. Through a whistling cloud of arrows they plowed to break
like a thundering wave on the bristling wall of spears and shields. Axes
rose and fell above the plumed helmets, spears thrust upward, bringing
down horses and riders. The pride of the Gundermen was no less fierce
than that of the knights. They were not spear-fodder, to be sacrificed
for the glory of better men. They were the finest infantry in the world,
with a tradition that made their morale unshakable. The kings of
Aquilonia had long learned the worth of unbreakable infantry. They held
their formation unshaken; over their gleaming ranks flowed the great
lion banner, and at the tip of the wedge a giant figure in black armor
roared and smote like a hurricane, with a dripping ax that split steel
and bone alike.

