'I followed him, some hours after he had departed eastward. I wished to
learn what he intended doing with Conan. I found that he had imprisoned
him in the pits. I intended to see that the barbarian died, in spite of
Xaltotun. And I accomplished----'

A cautious knock sounded at the door.

'That's Arideus,' grunted Tarascus. 'Let him in.'

The saturnine squire entered, his eyes blazing with suppressed
excitement.

'How, Arideus?' exclaimed Tarascus. 'Have you found the man who attacked
me?'

'You did not see him, my lord?' asked Arideus, as one who would assure
himself of a fact he already knows to exist. 'You did not recognize
him?'

'No. It happened so quick, and the candle was out--all I could think of
was that it was some devil loosed on me by Xaltotun's magic----'

'The Pythonian sleeps in his barred and bolted room. But I have been in
the pits.' Arideus twitched his lean shoulders excitedly.

'Well, speak, man!' exclaimed Tarascus impatiently. 'What did you find
there?'

'An empty dungeon,' whispered the squire. 'The corpse of the great ape!'

'_What?_' Tarascus started upright, and blood gushed from his opened
wound.

'Aye! The man-eater is dead--stabbed through the heart--and Conan is
gone!'

Tarascus was gray of face as he mechanically allowed Orastes to force
him prostrate again and the priest renewed work upon his mangled flesh.

'Conan!' he repeated. 'Not a crushed corpse--escaped! Mitra! He is no
man; but a devil himself! I thought Xaltotun was behind this wound. I
see now. Gods and devils! It was Conan who stabbed me! Arideus!'

'Aye, your Majesty!'

'Search every nook in the palace. He may be skulking through the dark
corridors now like a hungry tiger. Let no niche escape your scrutiny,
and beware. It is not a civilized man you hunt, but a blood-mad
barbarian whose strength and ferocity are those of a wild beast. Scour
the palace-grounds and the city. Throw a cordon about the walls. If you
find he has escaped from the city, as he may well do, take a troop of
horsemen and follow him. Once past the walls it will be like hunting a
wolf through the hills. But haste, and you may yet catch him.'

'This is a matter which requires more than ordinary human wits,' said
Orastes. 'Perhaps we should seek Xaltotun's advice.'

'No!' exclaimed Tarascus violently. 'Let the troopers pursue Conan and
slay him. Xaltotun can hold no grudge against us if we kill a prisoner
to prevent his escape.'

'Well,' said Orastes, 'I am no Acheronian, but I am versed in some of
the arts, and the control of certain spirits which have cloaked
themselves in material substance. Perhaps I can aid you in this matter.'

       *       *       *       *       *

The fountain of Thrallos stood in a clustered ring of oaks beside the
road a mile from the walls of the city. Its musical tinkle reached
Conan's ears through the silence of the starlight. He drank deep of its
icy stream, and then hurried southward toward a small, dense thicket he
saw there. Rounding it, he saw a great white horse tied among the
bushes. Heaving a deep gusty sigh he reached it with one stride--a
mocking laugh brought him about, glaring.

A dully glinting, mail-clad figure moved out of the shadows into the
starlight. This was no plumed and burnished palace guardsman. It was a
tall man in morion and gray chain-mail--one of the Adventurers, a class
of warriors peculiar to Nemedia; men who had not attained to the wealth
and position of knighthood, or had fallen from that estate; hard-bitten
fighters, dedicating their lives to war and adventure. They constituted
a class of their own, sometimes commanding troops, but themselves
accountable to no man but the king. Conan knew that he could have been
discovered by no more dangerous a foeman.

A quick glance among the shadows convinced him that the man was alone,
and he expanded his great chest slightly, digging his toes into the
turf, as his thews coiled tensely.

'I was riding for Belverus on Amalric's business,' said the Adventurer,
advancing warily. The starlight was a long sheen on the great two-handed
sword he bore naked in his hand. 'A horse whinnied to mine from the
thicket. I investigated and thought it strange a steed should be
tethered here. I waited--and lo, I have caught a rare prize!'

The Adventurers lived by their swords.

'I know you,' muttered the Nemedian. 'You are Conan, king of Aquilonia.
I thought I saw you die in the valley of the Valkia, but----'

Conan sprang as a dying tiger springs. Practised fighter though the
Adventurer was, he did not realize the desperate quickness that lurks in
barbaric sinews. He was caught off guard, his heavy sword half lifted.
Before he could either strike or parry, the king's poniard sheathed
itself in his throat, above the gorget, slanting downward into his
heart. With a choked gurgle he reeled and went down, and Conan
ruthlessly tore his blade free as his victim fell. The white horse
snorted violently and shied at the sight and scent of blood on the
sword.

Glaring down at his lifeless enemy, dripping poniard in hand, sweat
glistening on his broad breast, Conan poised like a statue, listening
intently. In the woods about there was no sound, save for the sleepy
cheep of awakened birds. But in the city, a mile away, he heard the
strident blare of a trumpet.

Hastily he bent over the fallen man. A few seconds' search convinced him
that whatever message the man might have borne was intended to be
conveyed by word of mouth. But he did not pause in his task. It was not
many hours until dawn. A few minutes later the white horse was galloping
westward along the white road, and the rider wore the gray mail of a
Nemedian Adventurer.

7 - THE RENDING OF THE VEIL
The Rending of the Veil

Conan knew his only chance of escape lay in speed. He did not even
consider hiding somewhere near Belverus until the chase passed on; he
was certain that the uncanny ally of Tarascus would be able to ferret
him out. Besides, he was not one to skulk and hide; an open fight or an
open chase, either suited his temperament better. He had a long start,
he knew. He would lead them a grinding race for the border.

