"That naturally hit Obed pretty hard, seein' as his normal trade
was doin' very poor. It hit the whole of Innsmouth, too, because in
seafarin' days what profited the master of a ship gen'lly profited the
crew proportionate. Most o' the folks araound the taown took the hard
times kind o' sheeplike an' resigned, but they was in bad shape because
the fishin' was peterin' aout an' the mills wa'n't doin' none too well.

"Then's the time Obed he begun a-cursin' at the folks fer bein' dull
sheep an' prayin' to a Christian heaven as didn't help 'em none. He
told 'em he'd knowed of folks as prayed to gods that give somethin' ye
reely need, an' says ef a good bunch o' men ud stand by him, he cud
mebbe git a holt o' sarten paowers as ud bring plenty o' fish an' quite
a bit o' gold."

Here the old man faltered, mumbled, and lapsed into a moody and
apprehensive silence; glancing nervously over his shoulder and then
turning back to stare fascinatedly at the distant black reef. When
I spoke to him he did not answer, so I knew I would have to let him
finish the bottle. He licked its nose and slipped it into his pocket,
then beginning to nod and whisper softly to himself. I bent close to
catch any articulate words he might utter, and thought I saw a sardonic
smile behind the stained, bushy whiskers. Yes--he was really forming
words, and I could grasp a fair proportion of them.

"Poor Matt--Matt he allus was agin it--tried to line up the folks on
his side, an' had long talks with the preachers--no use--they run
the Congregational parson aout o' taown, an' the Methodist feller
quit--never did see Resolved Babcock, the Baptist parson, agin--Wrath
o' Jehovy--I was a mighty little critter, but I heerd what I heerd an'
seen what I seen--Dagon an' Ashtoreth--Belial an' Beëlzebub--Golden
Caff an' the idols o' Canaan an' the Philistines--Babylonish
abominations--_Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin_--"

He stopped again, and from the look in his watery blue eyes I feared he
was close to a stupor after all. But when I gently shook his shoulder
he turned on me with astonishing alertness and snapped out some more
obscure phrases.

"Dun't believe me, hey? Heh, heh, heh--then just tell me, young feller,
why Cap'n Obed an' twenty odd other folks used to row aout to Devil
Reef in the dead o' night an' chant things so laoud ye cud hear 'em
all over taown when the wind was right? Tell me that, hey? An' tell
me why Obed was allus droppin' heavy things daown into the deep water
t'other side o' the reef whar the bottom shoots daown like a cliff
lower'n ye kin saound? Tell me what he done with that funny-shaped lead
thingumajig as Walakea give him? Hey, boy?"

The watery blue eyes were almost savage and maniacal now, and the dirty
white beard bristled electrically. Old Zadok probably saw me shrink
back, for he began to cackle evilly.

"Heh, heh, heh, heh! Beginnin' to see, hey? Haow abaout the night I
took my pa's ship's glass up to a cupalo an' seed the reef a-bristlin'
thick with shapes that dove off quick soon's the moon riz? Obed an' the
folks was in a dory, but them shapes dove off the far side into the
deep water an' never come up.... Haow'd ye like to be a little shaver
alone up in a cupalo a-watchin' shapes _as wa'n't human shapes_?...
Hey?... Heh, heh, heh, heh...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The old man was getting hysterical, and I began to shiver with a
nameless alarm. He laid a gnarled claw on my shoulder, and it seemed to
me that its shaking was not altogether that of mirth.

"S'pose one night ye seed somethin' heavy heaved offen Obed's dory
beyond the reef, an' then larned nex' day a young feller was missin'
from home? Hey? Did anybody ever see hide or hair o' Hiram Gilman agin?
Did they? An' Nick Pierce, an' Luelly Waite, an' Adoniram Saouthwick,
an' Henry Garrison? Hey? Heh, heh....

"Wal, Sir, that was the time Obed begun to git on his feet agin. Folks
see his three darters a-wearin' gold-like things as nobody'd never see
on 'em afore, an' smoke started comin' aout o' the refin'ry chimbly.
Other folks was prosp'rin', too--fish began to swarm into the harbor
fit to kill, an' heaven knows what sized cargoes we begun to ship aout
to Newb'ryport, Arkham, an' Boston. 'Twas then Obed got the ol' branch
railrud put through.

"Remember, I ain't sayin' Obed was set on hevin' things jest like
they was on that Kanaky isle. I dun't think he aimed at fust to do
no mixin', nor raise no young-uns to take to the water an' turn into
fishes with etarnal life. He wanted them gold things, an' was willin'
to pay heavy, an' I guess the _others_ was satisfied fer a while....

"Come in 'forty-six the taown done some lookin' an' thinkin' fer
itself. Too many folks missin'--too much wild preachin' at meetin' of a
Sunday--too much talk abaout that reef. I guess I done a bit by tellin'
Selectman Mowry what I see from the cupalo. They was a party one night
as follered Obed's craowd aout to the reef, an' I heerd shots betwixt
the dories. Nex' day Obed an' thutty-two others was in jail, with
everybody a-wonderin' jest what was afoot an' jest what charge agin
'em cud be got to holt. God, ef anybody'd looked ahead ... a couple
o' weeks later, when nothin' had ben throwed into the sea fer that
long...."

