8. THE BAKER STREET IRREGULARS

A bath in Baker Street and a complete change of clothes revived me wonderfully. When I came down to our sitting-room, I found breakfast laid, and Holmes pouring out the coffee.

“Here it is,” he said, laughing, and pointing to an open newspaper. “The energetic Jones and the ever-present reporter have arranged it between them. But you’ve had enough of the case. Better get your ham and eggs first.”

I took the paper from him and read the brief notice, headed “Mysterious Business at Upper Norwood.”

“About twelve o’clock last night,” said the *Standard*, “Mr. Bartholomew Sholto, of Pondicherry Lodge, Upper Norwood, was found dead in his room under circumstances which point to foul play. As far as we can learn, no actual traces of violence were found upon Mr. Sholto’s person, but a valuable collection of Indian gems which the deceased gentleman had inherited from his father has been carried off. The discovery was first made by Mr. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, who had called at the house with Mr. Thaddeus Sholto, brother of the deceased. By a singular piece of good fortune, Mr. Athelney Jones, the well-known member of the detective police force, happened to be at the Norwood Police Station, and was on the ground within half an hour of the first alarm. His trained and experienced faculties were at once directed towards the detection of the criminals, with the gratifying result that the brother, Thaddeus Sholto, has already been arrested, together with the housekeeper, Mrs. Bernstone, an Indian butler named Lal Rao, and a porter, or gatekeeper, named McMurdo. It is quite certain that the thief or thieves were well acquainted with the house, for Mr. Jones’s well-known technical knowledge and his powers of minute observation have enabled him to prove conclusively that the miscreants could not have entered by the door or by the window, but must have made their way across the roof of the building, and so through a trap-door into a room which communicated with that in which the body was found. This fact, which has been very clearly made out, proves conclusively that it was no mere haphazard burglary. The prompt and energetic action of the officers of the law shows the great advantage, on such occasions, of the presence of a single vigorous and masterful mind. We cannot but think that it supplies an argument to

“No, it isn’t quite as bad as that. It’s the unofficial force—the Baker Street Irregulars.”

As he spoke, there came a rapid patter of bare feet on the stairs, a clamor of shrill voices, and in burst a dozen filthy, ragged little street urchins. For all the uproar of their entrance, there was a hint of discipline among them: they instantly formed a line and stood facing us, their faces eager and expectant. One of them—taller and older than the rest—stepped forward with an air of lazy superiority that was absurdly comic in so disreputable a little scarecrow.

“Got your message, sir,” said he, “and brought ’em along sharp. Three bob and a tanner for tickets.”

“Here you are,” said Holmes, taking out some silver. “In future they can report to you, Wiggins, and you to me. I can’t have the house invaded like this. Still, it’s just as well you should all hear the instructions. I want to find where a steam launch called the *Aurora* is. Owner: Mordecai Smith. She’s black with two red streaks; funnel black with a white band. She’s somewhere down the river. I want one boy at Mordecai Smith’s landing-stage opposite Millbank, to say if the boat comes back. You must split the work among yourselves and cover both banks thoroughly. Let me know the instant you have news. Is that all clear?”

“Yes, guv’nor,” said Wiggins.

“Same pay as usual—and a guinea to the boy who finds the boat. Here’s a day in advance. Now off you go!” He gave them a shilling each, and away they buzzed down the stairs; a moment later I saw them streaming along the street.

“If the launch is above water, they’ll find her,” said Holmes, rising from the table and lighting his pipe. “They can go anywhere, see everything, overhear anyone. I expect to hear before evening that they’ve spotted her. Meanwhile, we can do nothing but wait for results. We can’t pick up the broken trail again until we find either the *Aurora* or Mr. Mordecai Smith.”

“Toby could eat these scraps, I suppose. Are you going to bed, Holmes?”

“No; I’m not tired. I have a curious constitution. I can’t remember ever feeling tired from work, though idleness exhausts me completely. I’m going to smoke and think over this strange business my fair client has brought us into. If ever a man had an easy task, ours ought to be. Wooden-legged men aren’t so common—but the other man must be, I should think, absolutely unique.”

“That other man again!”

“I don’t want to make a mystery of him—at least, not for you. But you must have formed your own opinion. Now, consider the facts. Tiny footprints; toes never cramped by boots; bare feet; a stone-headed wooden club; great agility; small poisoned darts. What do you make of it all?”

“A savage!” I cried. “Perhaps one of those Indians who were Jonathan Small’s companions.”

“Hardly,” said he. “When I first saw signs of strange weapons I was inclined to think so; but the extraordinary nature of the footprints made me reconsider. Some of the people of the Indian Peninsula are small, but none could have left marks like those. The Hindu proper has long, thin feet. The sandal-wearing Mohammedan has the big toe set well apart from the others, because the thong is commonly passed between. These little darts, too, can only be fired in one way. They’re from a blowpipe. Now then—where are we to find our savage?”

“South American,” I ventured.

He reached up and took down a bulky volume from the shelf.

“This is the first volume of a gazetteer that’s now being published. It may be taken as the very latest authority. What have we here? ‘Andaman Islands, situated 340 miles to the north of Sumatra, in the Bay of Bengal.’ Hm! Hm! What’s all this? Moist climate, coral reefs, sharks, Port Blair, convict barracks, Rutland Island, cottonwoods—ah, here we are. ‘The aborigines of the Andaman Islands may perhaps claim the distinction of being the smallest race on this earth, though some anthropologists prefer the Bushmen of Africa, the Digger Indians of America, and the Terra del Fuegians. The average height is rather below four feet, although many full-grown adults may be found who are very much smaller than this. They are a fierce, morose, and intractable people, though capable of forming the most devoted friendships when their confidence has once been gained.’ Mark that, Watson. Now then, listen to this: ‘They are naturally hideous, having large, misshapen heads, small, fierce eyes, and distorted features. Their feet and hands, however, are remarkably small. So intractable and fierce are they that all the efforts of the British official have failed to win them over in any degree. They have always been a terror to shipwrecked crews, braining the survivors with their stone-headed clubs, or shooting them with their poisoned arrows. These massacres are invariably concluded by a cannibal feast.’ Charming, friendly people, Watson! If this fellow had been left to his own unaided devices, this affair might have taken an even more ghastly turn. I suspect that, even as it is, Jonathan Small would give a good deal not to have employed him.”

“But how did he come to have such a strange companion?”

“Ah, that’s more than I can tell. Since, however, we’d already decided that
